<sect1 id="CwLnx-howto">
<title>The CwLnx Driver</title>

<para>
This section talks about using LCDproc with the serial / USB LCDs CW12232, CW12832
and CW1602 by CwLinux.
</para>

<sect2 id="CwLnx-features">
<title>Features</title>

<para>
The CwLinux CW12232 LCDs are graphical LCDs with 122 x 32 dots
that also have a text mode with 20 x 4 characters,
the CW12832 are graphical displays with 128 x 32 dots and a
21 x 4 character text mode,
the CW1602 LCDs are character LCDs that are 16 characters wide and
2 lines high.
</para>

<para>
The modules can be ordered bare or as part of a kit mounted
on brackets that fit in half-height 5.25" (CW12232 and CW1608)
or 3,5" (CW12832) drive bays.
The mounting brackets optionally feature a 6 button keypad that
makes use of the keypad connector on the display modules.
</para>

<para>
The kits allow to programmatically switch on/off their backlight.
Newer revisions of the kits also have programmable brighness as well
as 4 general purpose IO ports.
</para>

<para>
The displays come in 2 variants that differ how they communicate
with the host: The serial modules are connected to the PC using a serial
RS232 connection getting operating power using the standard floppy drive
power connector, while the USB modules only require an USB connection.
</para>

<para>
For more information see the
<ulink url="http://www.cwlinux.com">CwLinux web site</ulink>
</para>

</sect2>


<!-- ## Cwlinux driver ## -->
<sect2 id="CwLnx-config">
<title>Configuration in LCDd.conf</title>

<sect3 id="CwLnx-config-section">
<title>[CwLnx]</title>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
  <term>
    <property>Model</property> =
    {
      <emphasis><parameter><literal>12232</literal></parameter></emphasis> |
      <parameter><literal>12832</literal></parameter> |
      <parameter><literal>1602</literal></parameter>
    }
  </term>
  <listitem><para>
    Select the LCD model [default: <literal>12232</literal>;
    legal: <literal>12232</literal>, <literal>12832</literal>, <literal>1602</literal>]
  </para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
  <term>
    <property>Device</property> =
    <parameter><replaceable>DEVICE</replaceable></parameter>
  </term>
  <listitem><para>
    Select the output device to use [default: <filename>/dev/lcd</filename>]
    May be serial device or USB device in serial emulation mode.
  </para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
  <term>
    <property>Size</property> = &parameters.size;
  </term>
  <listitem><para>
    Select the LCD size [default: depending on model: 12232: <literal>20x4</literal>,
                                                      12832: <literal>21x4</literal>]
                                                       1602: <literal>16x2</literal>]
  </para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
  <term>
    <property>Speed</property> =
    {
      <parameter><literal>9600</literal></parameter> |
      <emphasis><parameter><literal>19200</literal></parameter></emphasis>
    }
  </term>
  <listitem><para>
    Set the the baud rate for communication with the LCD.
    If not given, the default is <literal>19200</literal>.
  </para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
  <term>
    <property>Reboot</property> = &parameters.yesnodef;
  </term>
  <listitem><para>
    Reinitialize the LCD's BIOS [default: <literal>no</literal>; legal: <literal>yes</literal>, <literal>no</literal>]
    normally you shouldn't need this
  </para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
  <term>
    <property>Keypad</property> = &parameters.yesnodef;
  </term>
  <listitem><para>
    Tells if you have a keypad connected. Keypad layout is currently not
    configurable from the config file.
  </para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
  <term>
    <property>KeyMap_A</property> =
    <parameter><replaceable>KEY</replaceable></parameter>
  </term>
  <term>
    <property>KeyMap_B</property> =
    <parameter><replaceable>KEY</replaceable></parameter>
  </term>
  <term>
    <property>KeyMap_C</property> =
    <parameter><replaceable>KEY</replaceable></parameter>
  </term>
  <term>
    <property>KeyMap_D</property> =
    <parameter><replaceable>KEY</replaceable></parameter>
  </term>
  <term>
    <property>KeyMap_E</property> =
    <parameter><replaceable>KEY</replaceable></parameter>
  </term>
  <term>
    <property>KeyMap_F</property> =
    <parameter><replaceable>KEY</replaceable></parameter>
  </term>
  <listitem><para>
    If you have a non standard keypad you can associate any keystrings to keys.
    There are 6 input key in the CwLnx hardware that generate characters
    from '<literal>A</literal>' to '<literal>F</literal>'.
    Legal values for <replaceable>KEY</replaceable> are <literal>Up</literal>,
    <literal>Down</literal>, <literal>Left</literal>, <literal>Right</literal>,
    <literal>Enter</literal> and <literal>Escape</literal>.
    </para>
    <para>
    The following is the built-in default mapping hardcoded in the driver.
    </para>
    <informaltable>
    <tgroup cols="2">
      <tbody>
        <row>
	  <entry>KeyMap_A</entry>
	  <entry><literal>Up</literal></entry>
	</row>
        <row>
	  <entry>KeyMap_B</entry>
	  <entry><literal>Down</literal></entry>
	</row>
        <row>
	  <entry>KeyMap_C</entry>
	  <entry><literal>Left</literal></entry>
	</row>
        <row>
	  <entry>KeyMap_D</entry>
	  <entry><literal>Right</literal></entry>
	</row>
        <row>
	  <entry>KeyMap_E</entry>
	  <entry><literal>Enter</literal></entry>
	</row>
        <row>
	  <entry>KeyMap_F</entry>
	  <entry><literal>Escape</literal></entry>
	</row>
      </tbody>
    </tgroup>
    </informaltable>
    <para>
    You may leave it unchanged if you have a standard keypad.
    You can change it if you want to report other keystrings or have a non
    standard keypad.
    </para>
  </listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
  <term>
    <property>keypad_test_mode</property> = &parameters.yesnodef;
  </term>
  <listitem><para>
    keypad_test_mode permit to test keypad assignment
    Default value is no
  </para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

</sect3>

</sect2>

</sect1>
