<sect1 id="ea65">
<title>The ea65 driver</title>

<para>
This section describes the ea65 driver which works with the front panel
VFD display on the AOpen XC Cube-AV EA65 media barebone.
</para>

<sect2 id="ea65-features">
<title>EA65 front panel VFD </title>

<para>
  The AOpen XC Cube-AV is a barebone designed for using as a media center.
  It comes with a front panel display which is capable of displaying one line
  of 9 characters.
</para>
<para>
  The display is internally connected to the serial port
  (<filename>/dev/ttyS1</filename>) with a fixed rate of 9600 baud.
</para>
<para>
  The display uses 13 segments per character. That's why the driver provides
  no custom characters like the ones for dot matrix displays do.
</para>
<para>
  The front panel furthermore has 9 keys which are illuminated by blue LEDs.
  The LEDs can be controlled with the backlight functions. The keys are not
  supported by this driver. The red LED (RECORD) can be controlled with the
  <code>output</code> command of <application>LCDd</application>.
</para>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="ea65-config">
<title>Configuration in LCDd.conf</title>

<sect3 id="ea65-config-section">
<title>[ea65]</title>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
  <term>
    <property>Brightness</property> =
    <parameter><replaceable>BRIGHTNESS</replaceable></parameter>
  </term>
  <listitem><para>
    Set the brightness for the front LEDs if backlight is switched on.
    Legal values for <replaceable>BRIGHTNESS</replaceable> are in the range
    between <literal>0</literal> and <literal>1000</literal>.
    Values under <literal>300</literal> set the LEDs off.
    Values between <literal>300</literal> and <literal>700</literal> turn
    on the LEDs with half brightness.
    Values above <literal>700</literal> turn on the LEDs with full brightness.
    If not given, it defaults to <literal>500</literal>.
  </para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
  <term>
    <property>OffBrightness</property> =
    <parameter><replaceable>OFFBRIGHTNESS</replaceable></parameter>
  </term>
  <listitem><para>
    Set the brightness for the front LEDs if backlight is switched off.
    Legal values for <replaceable>OFFBRIGHTNESS</replaceable> are in the range
    between <literal>0</literal> and <literal>1000</literal>.
    Values under <literal>300</literal> set the LEDs off.
    Values between <literal>300</literal> and <literal>700</literal> turn
    on the LEDs with half brightness.
    Values above <literal>700</literal> turn on the LEDs with full brightness.
    If not given, it defaults to <literal>0</literal>.
  </para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

</sect3>

</sect2>

</sect1>
