<sect1 id="eyeboxone">
<title>The Eyebox One Driver (EyeboxOne)</title>

<para>
This section describes the Eyebox One.
</para>

<sect2 id="eyeboxone-features">
<title>Eyebox One LCD Module</title>

<para>
  Eyebox One is a small rackmounted server marketed by Rightvision
  (<ulink url="http://www.alcateleyebox.rightvision.com/"></ulink>).
  This server has an LCD module, a keypad, two graphbars and some leds.
</para>
<para>
  The LCD is a 20x4 alphanumeric module connected via standard DB-9 cabling and
  connector.
</para>
<para>
  I couldn't find any documentation about it.
  All I know has been obtained with some reverse engineering.
  It seems that it can run only at 19.200 baud.
  Sending ASCII to the module will make it simply display that text at
  its current cursor position.
  The module has a built-in BIOS that recognizes commands (sent by transmitting a
  single-byte "marker" signifying that a command is on the way, followed by
  the single-byte command character itself along with any parameters, if needed)
  allowing the programmer to clear the screen, position the cursor anywhere,
  hide/show the cursor, on/off the backlight, and so on.
</para>
<para>
  This module is fast. If updating less than the whole screen, the LCD can
  update faster than can be seen by the human eye. This, of course,
  more than meets LCDproc's needs.
</para>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="eyeboxone-special_features">
<title>Eyebox One Driver and lcdproc client</title>
<para>
  You can use the two Eyebox One graphbars, one as a free CPU meter, and one as a free RAM meter
  with lcdproc client (see eyebox.c in lcdproc client sources).
</para>

<para>
  In order to use it, you must execute ./configure with a special parameter:
  <command>CPPFLAGS=-DLCDPROC_EYEBOXONE ./configure --enable-drivers=EyeboxOne</command>
</para>

<para>
This is only a BETA version modification, take it as a demo...
</para>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="eyeboxone-copy">
<title>Copyright</title>

<para>
This section was originally part of the mtxorb.docbook file by Rene Wagner <email>reenoo@gmx.de</email>
</para>

<para>
This section has been modified by Cédric TESSIER (http://www.nezetic.info)
</para>
</sect2>

<!-- ## EyeboxOne driver ## -->
<sect2 id="eyeboxone-config">
<title>Configuration in LCDd.conf</title>

<sect3 id="eyeboxone-config-section">
<title>[EyeboxOne]</title>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
  <term>
    <property>Device</property> =
    <parameter><replaceable>DEVICE</replaceable></parameter>
  </term>
  <listitem><para>
    Select the output device to use [default: <filename>/dev/ttyS1</filename>]
  </para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
  <term>
    <property>Size</property> = &parameters.size;
  </term>
  <listitem><para>
    Set the display size [default: <literal>20x4</literal>]
  </para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
  <term>
    <property>Backlight</property> = &parameters.yesdefno;
  </term>
  <listitem><para>
    Switch on the backlight [default: <literal>yes</literal>; legal: <literal>yes</literal>, <literal>no</literal>]
    </para>
    <note><para>
      If you choose yes, you can switch on/off the backlight in real time
      using the LCDproc server menu with the keypad.
    </para></note>
  </listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
  <term>
    <property>Cursor</property> = &parameters.yesnodef;
  </term>
  <listitem><para>
     Switch on the cursor? [default: <literal>no</literal>; legal: <literal>yes</literal>, <literal>no</literal>]
    </para>
  </listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
  <term>
    <property>Speed</property> =
    {
      <parameter><literal>1200</literal></parameter> |
      <parameter><literal>2400</literal></parameter> |
      <parameter><literal>9600</literal></parameter> |
      <emphasis><parameter><literal>19200</literal></parameter></emphasis>
    }
  </term>
  <listitem><para>
    Set the the baud rate to use when communicating with the LCD.
    If not specified, it defaults to <literal>19200</literal>.
    </para>
    <note><para>
      As I said, I think only <literal>19200</literal> is a good choice.
    </para></note>
  </listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
  <term>
    <property>LeftKey</property> =
    <parameter><replaceable>D</replaceable></parameter>
  </term>
  <term>
    <property>RightKey</property> =
    <parameter><replaceable>C</replaceable></parameter>
  </term>
  <term>
    <property>UpKey</property> =
    <parameter><replaceable>A</replaceable></parameter>
  </term>
  <term>
    <property>DownKey</property> =
    <parameter><replaceable>B</replaceable></parameter>
  </term>
  <term>
    <property>EscapeKey</property> =
    <parameter><replaceable>P</replaceable></parameter>
  </term>
  <term>
    <property>EnterKey</property> =
    <parameter><replaceable></replaceable></parameter>
  </term>
  <listitem><para>
    The following table translate from EyeboxOne Key to Logical Key.
    EyeboxOne Enter Key is a \r character, so it's hardcoded in the driver.
  </para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
  <term>
    <property>keypad_test_mode</property> = &parameters.yesnodef;
  </term>
  <listitem><para>
    You can find out which key of your display sends which
    character by setting keypad_test_mode to yes and running
    LCDd. LCDd will output all characters it receives.
    Afterwards you can modify the settings above and set
    keypad_set_mode to no again.
  </para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

</sect3>

</sect2>

</sect1>
