<sect1 id="glcdlib-howto">
<sect1info>
  <author>
    <firstname>Lucian</firstname>
    <surname>Muresan</surname>
  </author>
</sect1info>
<title>The glcdlib Driver</title>

<para>
This section talks about using LCDproc with LCD displays supported by
graphlcd-base.
</para>

<sect2 id="glcdlib-connections">
<title>Connections</title>

<para>
The so-called "meta-driver" glcdlib extends LCDproc's supported drivers by
all the drivers supported by graphlcd-base, which you can get from
<ulink url="http://projects.vdr-developer.org/projects/graphlcd/"></ulink>.
</para>
<para>
In order to be able to use it, you have to get and install the glcdprocdriver
from <ulink url="http://lucianm.github.com/GLCDprocDriver/"></ulink>
before configuring the LCDproc build process --enable-drivers=glcdlib.
</para>

</sect2>

<!-- ## glcdlib meta driver for graphical LCDs ## -->
<sect2 id="glcdlib-config">
<title>Configuration in LCDd.conf</title>

<sect3 id="glcdlib-config-section">
<title>[glcdlib]</title>

<variablelist>
<title>Mandatory settings</title>
<varlistentry>
  <term>
    <property>Driver</property> =
    <parameter><replaceable>GRAPHLCD-DRIVER</replaceable></parameter>
  </term>
  <listitem><para>
    Specify which graphical display supported by graphlcd-base to use.
    Legal values for <replaceable>GRAPHLCD-DRIVER</replaceable> are
    specified in graphlcd's configuration file <filename>/etc/graphlcd.conf</filename>.
    For graphlcd 0.13 they comprise <literal>avrctl</literal>, <literal>framebuffer</literal>,
    <literal>gu140x32f</literal>, <literal>gu256x64-372</literal>, <literal>gu256x64C-3xx0</literal>,
    <literal>hd61830</literal>, <literal>image</literal>, <literal>ks0108</literal>,
    <literal>noritake800</literal>, <literal>sed1330</literal>, <literal>sed1520</literal>,
    <literal>serdisp</literal>, <literal>simlcd</literal>, and <literal>t6963c</literal>.
    If not specified it defaults to <literal>image</literal>.
  </para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
  <term>
    <property>UseFT2</property> = &parameters.yesdefno;
  </term>
  <listitem><para>
    Tell whether to use FreeType2 or not.
    If set to <literal>no</literal> use graphlcd's bitmap fonts, which is only one size/font file.
    If set to to the default value <literal>yes</literal> use the fonts that FreeType2 provides.
    </para>
    <note><para>
      Setting it to <literal>yes</literal> requires Freetype2 support in libglcdprocdriver and its dependants.
    </para></note>
  </listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
  <term>
    <property>TextResolution</property> = &parameters.size;
  </term>
  <listitem><para>
    Give text resolution in fixed width characters. If it won't fit according
    to the available physical pixel resolution and the minimum available font
    face size in pixels, 'DebugBorder' will automatically be turned on.
    If not specified, it defaults to <literal>16x4</literal>.
  </para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
  <term>
    <property>FontFile</property> =
    <parameter><replaceable>FILENAME</replaceable></parameter>
  </term>
  <listitem><para>
    Set path to font file to use, e.g. <filename>/usr/share/fonts/corefonts/courbd.ttf</filename>.
  </para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

<variablelist>
<title>Availalble parameters if <property>UseFT2</property> = <literal>yes</literal></title>
<varlistentry>
  <term>
    <property>CharEncoding</property> =
    <parameter><replaceable>CHARSET</replaceable></parameter>
  </term>
  <listitem><para>
    Specify character encoding to use, e.g. <literal>iso8859-2</literal>.
    If not given, use the default <literal>ISO8859-1</literal>.
  </para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
  <term>
    <property>MinFontFaceSize</property> =
    <parameter>
      <replaceable>COLUMNS</replaceable>
      <literal>x</literal>
      <replaceable>ROWS</replaceable>
    </parameter>
  </term>
  <listitem><para>
    minimum size in pixels in which fonts should be rendered
  </para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

<variablelist>
<title>Optional settings</title>
<varlistentry>
  <term>
    <property>Brightness</property> =
    <parameter><replaceable>BRIGHTNESS</replaceable></parameter>
  </term>
  <listitem><para>
    Brightness (in %) if applicable
    Legal values are <literal>0</literal> - <literal>100</literal>.
    If not specified, the default is <literal>50</literal>.
  </para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
  <term>
    <property>Contrast</property> =
    <parameter><replaceable>CONTRAST</replaceable></parameter>
  </term>
  <listitem><para>
    Set the contrast (in %) if applicable.
    Legal values are <literal>0</literal> - <literal>100</literal>,
    with <literal>50</literal> being the default when not specified.
  </para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
  <term>
    <property>Backlight</property> = &parameters.yesnodef;
  </term>
  <listitem><para>
    Backlight if applicable
  </para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
  <term>
    <property>UpsideDown</property> = &parameters.yesnodef;
  </term>
  <listitem><para>
    flip image upside down
  </para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
  <term>
    <property>Invert</property> = &parameters.yesnodef;
  </term>
  <listitem><para>
    invert light/dark pixels
  </para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
  <term>
    <property>ShowDebugFrame</property> = &parameters.yesnodef;
  </term>
  <listitem><para>
    turns on/off 1 pixel thick debugging
    border within the usable text area,
    for setting up TextResolution and
    MinFontFaceSize (if using FT2);
  </para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
  <term>
    <property>ShowBigBorder</property> = &parameters.yesnodef;
  </term>
  <listitem><para>
    border around the unused area
  </para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
  <term>
    <property>ShowThinBorder</property> = &parameters.yesnodef;
  </term>
  <listitem><para>
    border around the unused area
  </para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
  <term>
    <property>PixelShiftX</property> =
    <parameter><replaceable>SHIFTX</replaceable></parameter>
  </term>
  <term>
    <property>PixelShiftY</property> =
    <parameter><replaceable>SHIFTY</replaceable></parameter>
  </term>
  <listitem><para>
    Shifts the content of the display by <replaceable>SHIFTX</replaceable>
    (default: <literal>0</literal>) and <replaceable>SHIFTY</replaceable>
    (default: <literal>0</literal>) pixels.
  </para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

</sect3>

</sect2>

</sect1>
