<sect1 id="imon-howto">
<title>The imon Driver</title>

<sect2 id="imon-general">
<title>General</title>

<para>
The <code>imon</code> driver controls
<ulink url="http://www.soundgraph.com/vfd-feature-en/">Soundgraph iMON VFD</ulink>
devices, that are either preinstalled or available as optional accessories
for a variety of Home Theater PC (HTPC) cases from Ahanix, Silverstone, Cooler Master
and others. They can also be bought separately and then fit into a 5,25" disk drive bay
of any regular PC.
</para>

<para>
The iMON VFD sports a vacuum fluorescent display with 16x2 characters
that connects to the computer using USB. Although the device is shipped
with an IR remote control and some versions even have a volume knob,
<package>LCDproc</package>'s driver currently only supports the display
part of the device.
</para>

<para id="imon-kernelmodules">
In order to be able to use it, you have to get and install one of
the following Linux kernel modules:
<itemizedlist>
  <listitem>
    <para>
      standalone iMON VFD driver from <ulink url="http://venky.ws/projects/imon/"></ulink>
    </para>
  </listitem>
  <listitem>
    <para>
       the iMON module included with LIRC ver. 0.7.1 or newer
       from the <ulink url="http://www.lirc.org">LIRC project</ulink>
    </para>
  </listitem>
</itemizedlist>
</para>

<para>
For further details, please consult the page and the forum at
<ulink url="http://venky.ws/projects/imon/"></ulink>.
</para>

</sect2>

<!-- ## Soundgraph/Ahanix/Silverstone/Uneed/Accent iMON driver ## -->
<sect2 id="imon-config">
<title>Configuration in LCDd.conf</title>

<sect3 id="imon-config-section">
<title>[imon]</title>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
  <term>
    <property>Size</property> = &parameters.size;
  </term>
  <listitem><para>
    Set the display size. The default <literal>16x2</literal> should be safe
    for most if not all users, since the device seems to be made only with
    this one size.
    But who knows &hellip;
  </para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
  <term>
    <property>Device</property> =
    <parameter><replaceable>DEVICE</replaceable></parameter>
  </term>
  <listitem><para>
    Select the output device to use. Change this from the default
    <filename>/dev/lcd</filename> to the device file that gets created
    when the kernel module (<link linkend="imon-kernelmodules">see above</link>) is loaded.
  </para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
  <term>
    <property>CharMap</property> =
    {
      <emphasis><parameter><literal>hd44780_euro</literal></parameter></emphasis> |
      <parameter><literal>hd44780_koi8_r</literal></parameter> |
      <parameter><literal>hd44780_cp1251</literal></parameter> |
      <parameter><literal>hd44780_8859_5</literal></parameter> |
      <parameter><literal>upd16314</literal></parameter> |
      <parameter><literal>none</literal></parameter>
    }
  </term>
  <listitem>
    <para>
      Set the character mapping depending on the display you have:
      <itemizedlist>
        <listitem><para>
          The default, <literal>hd44780_euro</literal> is for displays with
          a ROM mask supporting the european charset (ROM code A02).
        </para></listitem>
        <listitem><para>
          The <literal>none</literal> charmap does not translate any characters
          and is only useful for debugging.
        </para></listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
      You only need to set this parameter if you have a non-standard charmap.
    </para>
    <para>
      If LCDproc was configured with '--enable-extra-charmaps' option the
      following character mappings are available, too:
      <itemizedlist>
        <listitem><para>
          <literal>hd44780_koi8_r</literal> maps input from a client in
          Russian KOI8-R to displays with a ROM mask supporting the european
          charset (ROM code A02).
        </para></listitem>
        <listitem><para>
          <literal>hd44780_cp1251</literal> maps input from a client in
          Russian CP1251 (Windows-1251) to displays with a ROM mask supporting
          the european charset (ROM code A02).
        </para></listitem>
        <listitem><para>
          <literal>hd44780_8859_5</literal>  maps input from a client in
          Russian ISO 8859-5 to displays with a ROM mask supporting the european
          charset (ROM code A02).
        </para></listitem>
        <listitem><para>
          <literal>upd16314</literal> is for displays with a Nec uPD16314
          vacuum fluorescent display (VFD) controller with ROM code 002
          character set. If your display has ROM code 001 character set you
          may use the <literal>hd44780_euro</literal> charmap instead.
        </para></listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </para>
    <tip>
      <para>
      See <filename>server/drivers/hd44780-charset.h</filename>
      in <package>LCDproc</package>'s source directory for the actual
      mappings.
      </para>
    </tip>
  </listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

</sect3>

</sect2>

</sect1>
