<sect1 id="imonlcd-howto">
<title>The imonlcd Driver</title>

<sect2 id="imonlcd-general">
<title>General</title>

<para>
This section talks about using LCDproc with LCD devices manufactured by SoundGraph.
For example, <ulink url="http://www.soundgraph.com/oem-lcd-feature-en/">the iMON OEM LCD</ulink>.
</para>

<para>
This driver currently supports versions 15c2:ffdc and 15c2:0038 of the device.
(You can find the version of your LCD via the lsusb command).
</para>

<para>
In many systems, the LCD backlight will remain on after the system is shutdown.
This behavior remains a mystery - somehow the LCD receives a reset command (or
similar) AFTER LCDd is stopped.
</para>

<para id="imonlcd-kernelmodules">
This driver requires the iMON module included with LIRC v0.8.4a or newer,
available from the <ulink url="http://www.lirc.org">LIRC project</ulink>.
The 15c2:0038 device may require LIRC v0.8.5 or newer.
</para>

</sect2>


<sect2 id="imonlcd-config">
<title>Configuration in LCDd.conf</title>

<sect3 id="imonlcd-config-section">
<title>[imonlcd]</title>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
  <term>
    <property>Protocol</property> =
    <parameter><replaceable>PROTOCOL</replaceable></parameter>
  </term>
  <listitem><para>
    Specify which version of iMON LCD is installed.
    The default, <literal>0</literal> specifies the :ffdc device.
    <literal>1</literal> should be used for the :0038 device.
  </para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
  <term>
    <property>OnExit</property> =
    <parameter><replaceable>ONEXIT</replaceable></parameter>
  </term>
  <listitem><para>
    Specify the exit behavior.
    The default is <literal>1</literal>, which turns on the big ugly clock upon
    shutdown. <literal>0</literal> leaves the shutdown message on the screen.
    <literal>2</literal> turns the LCD off.
  </para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
  <term>
    <property>Device</property> =
    <parameter><replaceable>DEVICE</replaceable></parameter>
  </term>
  <listitem><para>
    Select the output device to use. Change this from the default
    <filename>/dev/lcd0</filename> to the device file that gets created
    when the kernel module (<link linkend="imonlcd-kernelmodules">see above</link>)
    is loaded.
  </para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
  <term>
    <property>Contrast</property> =
    <parameter><replaceable>CONTRAST</replaceable></parameter>
  </term>
  <listitem><para>
    Select the display's contrast <literal>200</literal> is the default.
    Permissible values are in the range of <literal>0</literal>-<literal>1000</literal>.
  </para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
  <term>
    <property>Size</property> = &parameters.size;
  </term>
  <listitem><para>
    Set the display size in pixels. The default <literal>96x16</literal> should
    be safe for most if not all users, since the device seeems to be made only
    with this one size.
  </para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
  <term>
    <property>Backlight</property> =
    <parameter><replaceable>BACKLIGHT</replaceable></parameter>
  </term>
  <listitem><para>
    Set the backlight state. The default is <literal>1</literal>, which turns
    the backlight on. <literal>0</literal> turns the backlight off.
  </para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
  <term>
    <property>DiscMode</property> =
    <parameter><replaceable>DISCMODE</replaceable></parameter>
  </term>
  <listitem><para>
    Sets the disc mode. The default is <literal>0</literal> which spins the
    "slim" disc. <literal>1</literal> spins their complement.
  </para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>

</sect3>

</sect2>

</sect1>
