<sect1 id="IOWarrior-howto">
<title>The IOWarrior Driver</title>

<sect2 id="IOWarrior-general">
<title>General</title>

<para>
IOWarrior is the name of a series of multi-purpose USB controller chips
produced and sold by <ulink url="http://www.codemercs.com/">Code Mercenaries</ulink>.
This series currently consists of three main types, that - among other features -
support controlling LCD displays:

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
  <term>IOWarrior24</term>
  <listitem>
    <itemizedlist>
      <listitem><para>USB 1.1 Low Speed</para></listitem>
      <listitem><para>16 generic I/O Pins, typ. 125Hz read rate</para></listitem>
      <listitem><para>I<superscript>2</superscript>C master function, 100kHz, throughput typ. 750 bytes/sec</para></listitem>
      <listitem><para>SPI master interface, up to 2MHz, throughput typ. 750 bytes/sec</para></listitem>
      <listitem><para>control an HD44780 compatible LCD</para></listitem>
      <listitem><para>drive a matrix of up to 8x32 LEDs</para></listitem>
      <listitem><para>decode RC5 compatible infrared remote controls</para></listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
  </listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
  <term>IOWarrior40</term>
  <listitem>
    <itemizedlist>
      <listitem><para>USB 1.1 Low Speed</para></listitem>
      <listitem><para>32 generic I/O Pins, typ. 125Hz read rate</para></listitem>
      <listitem><para>I<superscript>2</superscript>C master function, 100kHz, throughput typ. 750 bytes/sec</para></listitem>
      <listitem><para>control an HD44780 compatible LCD</para></listitem>
      <listitem><para>drive a matrix of up to 8x32 LEDs</para></listitem>
      <listitem><para>drive a 8x8 switch or button matrix</para></listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
  </listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
  <term>IOWarrior56</term>
  <listitem>
    <itemizedlist>
      <listitem><para>USB 1.1 Full Speed</para></listitem>
      <listitem><para>50 generic I/O Pins, typ. 1000Hz read rate</para></listitem>
      <listitem><para>I<superscript>2</superscript>C master function, 50, 100, or 400kHz</para></listitem>
      <listitem><para>SPI master interface, up to 12MHz, throughput up to 62Kbytes/sec</para></listitem>
      <listitem><para>control various display modules, including most graphic modules</para></listitem>
      <listitem><para>drive a matrix of up to 8x64 LEDs</para></listitem>
      <listitem><para>drive a 8x8 switch or button matrix</para></listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
  </listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</para>

<para>
The <code>IOWarrior</code> driver currently only supports writing
to a single-controller HD44780-type display.
LED output using the <command>output()</command> function is also implemented,
although not tested very well.
The hardware's support for input using keys or IR and dual-controller displays
is not implemented yet.
Please note that the latter requires extra circuitry with IOWarrior24 and IOWarrior40.
</para>

<para>
The driver was developed and tested with IOWarrior24 and the IOWarrior40.
Although there are good chances for it to work with an IOWarrior56,
the current state regarding support of this chip is unknown due to the
lack of the required hardware.
</para>

</sect2>


<sect2 id="IOWarrior-requirements">
<title>Requirements</title>

<para>
The driver is based on the <ulink url="http://libusb.sourceforge.net/"><filename>libusb</filename></ulink>
USB library, which should make it work with Linux, the different BSD variants
as well as Darwin/MacOS X.

<note>
  <para>
    When using a <filename>libusb</filename> based driver like <code>IOWarrior</code>,
    <application>LCDd</application> needs to be started as root.
  </para>
</note>

<note>
  <para>
    Newer Linux kernels (2.6.20 and higher) provide a kernel module
    <filename>iowarrior.ko</filename> that allows controlling IOWarrior
    chips using device files.
    <application>LCDd</application> tries to unload this kernel module
    for <filename>libusb</filename> to be able to control IOWarrior devices.
    If this fails, this may hinder <application>LCDd</application>
    from starting using the <code>IOWarrior</code> driver.
    In this case, simply unload the kernel module by hand.
  </para>
</note>
</para>

</sect2>


<!-- ## Code Mercenaries IO-Warrior driver ## -->
<sect2 id="IOWarrior-config">
<title>Configuration in LCDd.conf</title>

<sect3 id="IOWarrior-config-section">
<title>[IOWarrior]</title>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
  <term>
    <property>Size</property> = &parameters.size;
  </term>
  <listitem><para>
    Set the display dimensions. If not given, it defaults to <literal>20x4</literal>.
  </para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
  <term>
    <property>SerialNumber</property> =
    <parameter><replaceable>SERIALNO</replaceable></parameter>
  </term>
  <listitem><para>
    Use the IOWarrior module with the serial number <replaceable>SERIALNO</replaceable>.
    If this parameter is missing, the default is to use the first IOWarrior module found.
  </para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
  <term>
    <property>ExtendedMode</property> = &parameters.yesnodef;
  </term>
  <listitem><para>
    If you have a KS0073 or an other 'almost HD44780-compatible' display
    connected to the IOWarrior, set this flag to get into extended,
    4-line linear addressing mode
  </para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
  <term>
    <property>Lastline</property> = &parameters.yesdefno;
  </term>
  <listitem><para>
    Specifies if the last line is pixel addressable or it controls an
    underline effect.
    The default <literal>yes</literal> means, it is pixel addressable.
  </para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

</sect3>

</sect2>

</sect1>
