<sect1 id="JW002">
<title>The JW002 Driver</title>

<para>
      This section covers the installation process for the JW002 LCD
      module intended for use with LCDproc.
</para>

<sect2 id="jw002-features">
<title>JW002 LCD Module</title>
        <para>
          The "JW002 LCD Module" is an HG12603(A) 2" x 4" display with a
          Samsung KS107B controller driven by an on-board MCS/51 microcontroller.
          Normally, the KS107B is used to drive a graphical LCD, but on this
          display, the pixels on the glass are diced up into 8 lines of 24 5x7
          pixel character areas rather than a contiguous 120x56 drawing area.
        </para>
        <para>
          This LCD module seems to have originally been used in some sort of
          AT&T telephone product, but has been available for a number of years
          in the surplus channel, typically selling for between $20 and $50,
          depending on quantity and if it was being sold as a bare module or
          with the necessary circuitry to interface to a host machine.
        </para>
        <para>
          The most visible use of this LCD module has been the PJRC MP3 player
          (http://www.pjrc.com/tech/mp3/index.html).  The original AT&T firmware
          was severely limited as to what it could do.  Paul Stoffregen of PJRC
          has made replacement firmware available in the public domain.  Owners
          of "stock" HG12603A modules (also sold as "JW-002" modules) can either
          download Paul's firmware from his site and burn their own chips, or
          more simply, purchase a chip ready to drop into a stock display.
        </para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="jw002-hardware">
<title>JW002 Hardware Installation</title>
      <para>
          The PJRC firmware takes care of the command set, but the module itself
          needs a few external components added to it for easy PC use.  The
          HG12603A requires a Vee of about -7V for LCD contrast.  In addition,
          the serial interface to the 8051 microcontroller is at TTL levels
          (0 and +5VDC), not RS-232 levels (+/- 3-12VDC).  Fortunately, it's
          easy to tap off the charge pump caps of an ordinary MAX232A chip for
          Vee, making the interface a single chip and a few caps.  As a bonus.
          the PJRC software uses the 8051 I/O lines present on the 17-pin
          connector to scan a 3x4 keypad matrix.
      </para>
      <para>
          Paul has also made the schematics to a level shifter/Vee supply/keypad
          available on his website - http://www.pjrc.com/tech/mp3/pushbutton_info.html
          If you have your own HG12603A/JW-002 module, you can roll your own,
          or, as of this writing, it's still possible to buy a ready-to-plug-in
          LCD module *with* a "pushbutton adaptor board" and cables directly
          from PJRC - http://www.pjrc.com/store/mp3_display.html
      </para>
      <para>
          While the PJRC display was really designed to work hand-in-hand with
          the PJRC MP3 player, an intelligent, serially interfaced, 8x24 character
          display with 12 buttons is a luxury compared to the standard LCDproc
          4x20 display with 0-5 buttons.
      </para>
</sect2>

<!-- ## JW-002 driver ## -->
<sect2 id="jw002-config">
<title>Configuration in LCDd.conf</title>

<sect3 id="jw002-config-section">
<title>[jw002]</title>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
  <term>
    <property>Device</property> =
    <parameter><replaceable>DEVICE</replaceable></parameter>
  </term>
  <listitem><para>
    Select the output device to use [default: <filename>/dev/lcd</filename>]
  </para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
  <term>
    <property>Size</property> = &parameters.size;
  </term>
  <listitem><para>
    Set the display size [default: <literal>24x8</literal>]
  </para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
  <term>
    <property>X_offset</property> = 
    <parameter><literal>0</literal></parameter>
  </term>
  <listitem><para>
    X offset (in characters) to center a smaller display size on the full 24x8 panel
  </para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
  <term>
    <property>Y_offset</property> = 
    <parameter><literal>0</literal></parameter>
  </term>
  <listitem><para>
    Y offset (in characters) to center a smaller display size on the full 24x8 panel
  </para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
  <term>
    <property>Speed</property> =
    {
      <parameter><literal>1200</literal></parameter> |
      <parameter><literal>2400</literal></parameter> |
      <parameter><literal>9600</literal></parameter> |
      <emphasis><parameter><literal>19200</literal></parameter></emphasis>
    }
  </term>
  <listitem><para>
    Set the the baud rate to use when communicating with the LCD.
    If not specified, it defaults to <literal>19200</literal>.
  </para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
  <term>
    <property>Font</property> = 
    <parameter><literal>0</literal></parameter>
  </term>
  <listitem><para>
    Pick which font page to use.  Note that different fonts probably have their
    bargraph characters in different spots.  For ROM-based fonts 0-3, those
    characters are already known
  </para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
  <term>
    <property>KeyMap_<replaceable>LETTER</replaceable></property> =
    <parameter><replaceable>KEY</replaceable></parameter>
  </term>
  <listitem>
    <para>
    The JW002 display supports up to 12 keys which return
    one of the letters <literal>A</literal> - <literal>L</literal> for each
    pressed key.
    </para>
    <para>
    These settings allow to map the letter <replaceable>LETTER</replaceable>,
    that is generated by the display when a key is pressed, to be mapped to
    a key name <replaceable>KEY</replaceable> that <property>LCDd</property>
    can understand (see <link linkend="menu-section" endterm="menu-section.title"/>
    for more information).
    </para>
    <para>
    There is no default key mapping; if no keys are mapped in the
    <filename>LCDd.conf</filename> config file, the display is treated
    as if it had no keys attached.
    </para>
    <example id="JW002-config-keymap-example">
      <title>JW002: keymap config</title>
      <programlisting>
      KeyMap_A=Left
      KeyMap_B=Right
      KeyMap_C=Up
      KeyMap_D=Down
      KeyMap_E=Enter
      KeyMap_F=Escape
      </programlisting>
    </example>
  </listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
  <term>
    <property>keypad_test_mode</property> = &parameters.yesnodef;
  </term>
  <listitem><para>
    You can find out which key of your display sends which
    character by setting keypad_test_mode to yes and running
    LCDd. LCDd will output all characters it receives.
    Afterwards you can modify the settings above and set
    keypad_set_mode to no again.
  </para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

</sect3>

</sect2>

</sect1>
