<sect1 id="lirc">
<title>The lirc Driver</title>

<para>
The lirc driver enables you to use any IR remote control
that works with LIRC to control the LCDproc server
(<application>LCDd</application>)
and/or clients that can handle input.
</para>
<para>
Of course you need a working LIRC setup. Refer to
<ulink url="http://www.lirc.org">http://www.lirc.org</ulink> for more
information on LIRC itself.
</para>

<sect2 id="lirc-install">
<title>Checking Your LIRC Setup</title>

<para>
Basically all you need is a running <application>lircd</application>.
And of course you have to start <application>lircd</application>
as root.
</para>
<para>
Also, make sure that the permission of <filename>/dev/lircd</filename>
are correct.
</para>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="lirc-configure">
<title>Build LCDd with the lirc Driver</title>

<para>
You need to add lirc to the --enable-drivers=... list.
</para>

<para>
Then simply run make.
</para>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="lirc-configuration">
<title>Configure LCDd to Use the lirc Driver</title>

<para>
First of all you need to activate the driver by adding a Driver=lirc line
to your <filename>LCDd.conf</filename>
</para>

<example>
<title><filename>LCDd.conf</filename>: Activate the lirc driver</title>
<programlisting>

Driver=mtxorb
Driver=lirc

</programlisting>
</example>

<para>
This activates the mtxorb driver as the output driver and the lirc driver
as the input driver.
</para>

<para>
Then you have to modify the [lirc] section of your
<filename>LCDd.conf</filename>.
</para>

<sect3 id="lirc-section">
<title><filename>LCDd.conf</filename>: The [lirc] Section</title>

<para>
The [lirc] section of the <filename>LCDd.conf</filename> contains the
settings for the lirc LCDproc driver.
</para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term>lircrc=</term>
<listitem>
<para>
<anchor id="which-lircrc" />Normally all LIRC clients scan the file <filename>~/.lircrc</filename>.
However, you might want to have a separate file to configure the
LCDproc lirc driver only.
</para>
<para>
This option enables you to specify the file you want the lirc
driver to scan.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term>prog=</term>
<listitem>
<para>
All LIRC keys are assigned to a program using the prog=... option
in the <filename>~/.lircrc</filename> (or the file you have specified
with lircrc=...).
</para>
<para>
The prog=... line must be the same as in your <filename>~/.lircrc</filename>
(or the file you have specified with lircrc=...).
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>

</sect3>

<!-- ## LIRC input driver ## -->
<sect2 id="lirc-config">
<title>Configuration in LCDd.conf</title>

<sect3>
<title>[lirc]</title>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
  <term>
    <command>lircrc=</command>
    <arg choice="plain"><replaceable>FILENAME</replaceable></arg>
  </term>
  <listitem>
    <para>
    Normally all LIRC clients scan the file <filename>~/.lircrc</filename>.
    However, you might want to have a separate file to configure the LCDproc lirc driver only. 
    </para>
    <para>
    This option enables you to specify the file you want the lirc driver to scan.
    If not given it defaults to <filename>~/.lircrc</filename>.
    </para>
  </listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
  <term>
    <command>Prog=</command>
    <arg choice="plain"><replaceable>PROGRAM</replaceable></arg>
  </term>
  <listitem>
    <para>
    All LIRC keys are assigned to a program using the prog=... option
    in the lirc configuration file.
    </para>
    <para>
    <replaceable>PROGRAM</replaceable> must be the same as in iyour lirc
    configuration file.
    </para>
  </listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

</sect3>

</sect2>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="lircrc">
<title>Modify Your <filename>~/.lircrc</filename></title>

<para>
As mentioned above you can either modify the <filename>~/.lircrc</filename>
or use a separate file for the lirc LCDproc driver (See
<link linkend="which-lircrc">above</link> for details).
</para>

<para>
No matter which file you use, you have to add at least the following
lines to the file:
</para>

<example>
<title><filename>~/.lircrc</filename>: Specify the associations from buttons to keysi
for the lirc driver</title>
<programlisting>

begin
        prog = lcdd
        button = 2
        config = Up
end

begin
        prog = lcdd
        button = 4
        config = Left
end

begin
        prog = lcdd
        button = 6
        config = Right
end

begin
        prog = lcdd
        button = 8
        config = Down
end

begin
        prog = lcdd
        button = 1
        config = Escape
end

begin
        prog = lcdd
        button = 0
        config = Enter
end


</programlisting>
</example>

<para>
Which buttons you specify here depends on your RC and your LIRC configuration.
</para>

<para>
The <literal>config</literal> values need to be one of <literal>Up</literal>,
<literal>Down</literal>, <literal>Left</literal>, <literal>Right</literal>,
<literal>Escape</literal> or <literal>Enter</literal>.
For LCDd's server menu at least the keys <literal>Up</literal>, <literal>Escape</literal>
and <literal>Enter</literal> are necessary.
</para>

<para>
<!-- TOTO: is this still true with 0.5 ? -->
Of course you can define other keys. Those keys will not be handled by the
server but sent to a client. Refer to the documentation of the client you want
to use, to find out which keys are neccessary for that client.
</para>

</sect2>

</sect1>
