<sect1 id="lis-howto">
<title>The lis Driver</title>

<para>
  This section talks about using LCDproc with the VLSystem L.I.S
  MCE 2005 Vacuum Fluorescent Display (VFD) based on the FTDI USB-to-serial
  converter, the Microchip PIC-16F716 microcontroller, and
  the NEC UPD16314 display driver manufactured by
  <ulink url="http://www.vlsys.co.kr">VLSystem</ulink>.
</para>

<!-- ## VLSys lis driver ## -->
<sect2 id="lis-features">
<title>Features</title>

<para>
This device uses a vacuum fluorescent display of 20 characters by 2 lines. Each each
character is 5 pixels wide by 8 pixels high. The device is connected by USB. The FTDI chip
translates the USB protocol to serial expected by the VFD driver chip, an NEC UPD16314.
A programmable interrupt controller (PIC), the PIC16F716 by Microchip, provides the glue
between the FTDI and the NEC chips.
</para>


</sect2>

<sect2 id="lis-requirements">
<title>Requirements</title>

<para>
The driver depends on <filename>libftdi</filename>, version 0.8 or higher, from
<ulink url="http://www.intra2net.com/en/developer/libftdi/">
http://www.intra2net.com/en/developer/libftdi/</ulink>.
</para>

<para>
<filename>libftdi</filename> itself depends on the
<ulink url="http://libusb.sourceforge.net/"><filename>libusb</filename></ulink>
USB library.

<note>
  <para>
    When using a <filename>libusb</filename> based driver like <code>lis</code>,
    <application>LCDd</application> needs to be started as root.
  </para>
</note>
</para>

</sect2>


<sect2 id="lis-config">
<title>Configuration in LCDd.conf</title>

<sect3 id="lis-config-section">
<title>[lis]</title>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
  <term>
    <property>Size</property> = &parameters.size;
  </term>
  <listitem><para>
    Set the display size. The default <literal>20x2</literal> should be safe
    for most if not all users, since the device seems to be made only with
    this one size.
    But who knows &hellip;
  </para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
  <term>
    <property>VendorID</property> =
    <parameter><replaceable>VENDORID</replaceable></parameter>
  </term>
  <listitem>
    <para>
      The USB Vendor ID of the device to use.
      If not given, it defaults to <literal>0x0403</literal> for a VLSystems L.I.S. MCE 2005 VFD
      based on a FT232BL USB-to-RS232 converter by FTDI, which was produced
      before March 2007.
    </para>
    <para>
      It is usually not necessary to specify a <replaceable>VENDORID</replaceable>.
      Please do so only if you want to test a compatible device.
    </para>
  </listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
  <term>
    <property>ProductID</property> =
    <parameter><replaceable>PRODUCTID</replaceable></parameter>
  </term>
  <listitem>
    <para>
      The USB Product ID of the device to use.
      If not given, it defaults to <literal>0x6001</literal> for a VLSystems L.I.S. MCE 2005 VFD
      based on a FT232BL USB-to-RS232 converter by FTDI, which was produced
      before March 2007.
    </para>
    <para>
      It is usually not necessary to specify a <replaceable>PRODUCTID</replaceable>.
      Please do so only if you want to test a compatible device.
    </para>
  </listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
  <term>
    <property>Brightness</property> =
    <parameter><replaceable>BRIGHTNESS</replaceable></parameter>
  </term>
  <listitem>
  <para>
    Set the initial brightness [default: <literal>1000</literal>;
    legal: <literal>0</literal> - <literal>1000</literal>. Values
    between 0 and 250 give 25% brightness, 251 to 500 give 50% brightness,
    501 and 750, give 75% brightness, and values higher than 751 give 100%
    brightness.
  </para>
  </listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

</sect3>

</sect2>

</sect1>
