<sect1 id="sed1520-howto">
<title>The sed1520 Driver</title>

<para>
This section talks about using LCDproc with LCD displays that use the
SED1520 chipset.
</para>

<para>Currently the driver supports 122x32 pixel graphic displays based on
the SED1520 controller connected to the parallel port.</para>

<note>
<para>Those SED1520 displays are the most troublesome I have ever used. You
should probably avoid using them and get a 20x4 text display instead.</para>
</note>

<sect2 id="sed1520-connections">
<title>Connections</title>
<!-- Insert schematic here -->

<warning>
<para>Displays using SED1520 come in a wide variety of configurations. It is
possible to cause harm to your display (e.g. connecting negative voltage
incorrectly. Be sure to check your datasheet! Do not try to use a display
without having a datasheet to check against!</para>
<para>Here here some of the options I encountered:</para>
<itemizedlist>
  <listitem><para>Negative voltage: The chip requires negative voltage for
  driving the display. Some display modules have a negative voltage converter
  on-board. On those that don't you have to supply about -7 V (will not
  show how to do this).</para></listitem>
  <listitem><para>Reset circuit: Some display modules have an R/C-combination
  on-board selecting an MCU interface if the pin is not connected.</para></listitem>
  <listitem><para>Frequency generator: The SED1520 is manufactured in several
  versions. Some contain an on-chip frequency generator, others require an external
  clock of 2 kHz (won't show this here). Note that display modules with an
  on-chip generator do not have a /CS (chip select) line.</para></listitem>
  <listitem><para>Incorrect datasheets: I have seen display datasheets
  incorrectly naming pins, missing some of the commands, missing pages from the
  chip description and other odds. Be warned!</para></listitem>
  <listitem><para>No pin numbers are given in the tables below. You have to
  figure out those yourself from the datasheet for your display!</para></listitem>
</itemizedlist>
</warning>

<para>That said here some wirings:</para>

<sect3 id="sed1520-80">
<title>80-style connection style</title>

<para>This mode of operation is selected if the RESET line is wired to
ground. The wiring used by this driver in 80-style mode assumes you have
/CS1 and /CS2 lines available (thus you must have an external clock
generator) and toggles the /RW line. This is the original wiring by Robin Adams
(<ulink url="http://www.usblcd.de/lcdproc/sed1520.php4">SED1520 LPT Port</ulink>).
</para>

<table id="sed1520-connections-80-mapping">
<title>SED1520 80-style wiring schematic</title>
<tgroup cols="5" align="left">
<colspec colname="lpt1"/>
<colspec colname="lpt2" align="right"/>
<colspec colname="base" align="center"/>
<colspec colname="lcd1"/>
<colspec colname="lcd2"/>
  <thead>
    <row>
      <entry namest="lpt1" nameend="lpt2" align="center">Parallel port</entry>
      <entry morerows="1">&lt;-&gt;</entry>
      <entry namest="lcd1" nameend="lcd2" align="center">LCD</entry>
    </row>
    <row>
      <entry>name</entry>
      <entry>pin</entry>
      <entry>name</entry>
      <entry>pin</entry>
    </row>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <row>
      <entry>D0-D7</entry>
      <entry>2-9</entry>
      <entry></entry>
      <entry>DB0-DB7</entry>
      <entry>*</entry>
    </row>
    <row>
      <entry>nSTRB</entry>
      <entry>1</entry>
      <entry></entry>
      <entry>/WR</entry>
      <entry>*</entry>
    </row>
    <row>
      <entry>nLF</entry>
      <entry>14</entry>
      <entry></entry>
      <entry>/CS1</entry>
      <entry>*</entry>
    </row>
    <row>
      <entry>INIT</entry>
      <entry>16</entry>
      <entry></entry>
      <entry>/CS2</entry>
      <entry>*</entry>
    </row>
    <row>
      <entry>nSEL</entry>
      <entry>17</entry>
      <entry></entry>
      <entry>A0</entry>
      <entry>*</entry>
    </row>
    <row>
      <entry></entry>
      <entry></entry>
      <entry>VDD</entry>
      <entry>/RD</entry>
      <entry>*</entry>
    </row>
    <row>
      <entry></entry>
      <entry></entry>
      <entry>GND</entry>
      <entry>RESET/IF</entry>
      <entry>*</entry>
    </row>
    <row>
      <entry></entry>
      <entry></entry>
      <entry>2 kHz clock</entry>
      <entry>CL</entry>
      <entry>*</entry>
    </row>
  </tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
</sect3>

<sect3 id="sed1520-68">
<title>68-style connection style</title>

<para>This mode of operation is selected if the RESET line is wired to VDD.
For this wiring the display is required to have an on-board frequency generator
(something you really want to have) and the display module has an E1 and E2
line. Writing is controlled by toggling the E1 and E2 line while /RW is low.
</para>

<table id="sed1520-connections-68-mapping">
<title>SED1520 68-style wiring schematic</title>
<tgroup cols="5" align="left">
<colspec colname="lpt1"/>
<colspec colname="lpt2" align="right"/>
<colspec colname="base" align="center"/>
<colspec colname="lcd1"/>
<colspec colname="lcd2"/>
  <thead>
    <row>
      <entry namest="lpt1" nameend="lpt2" align="center">Parallel port</entry>
      <entry morerows="1">&lt;-&gt;</entry>
      <entry namest="lcd1" nameend="lcd2" align="center">LCD</entry>
    </row>
    <row>
      <entry>name</entry>
      <entry>pin</entry>
      <entry>name</entry>
      <entry>pin</entry>
    </row>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <row>
      <entry>D0-D7</entry>
      <entry>2-9</entry>
      <entry></entry>
      <entry>DB0-DB7</entry>
      <entry>*</entry>
    </row>
    <row>
      <entry>nSTRB</entry>
      <entry>1</entry>
      <entry></entry>
      <entry>R/-W</entry>
      <entry>*</entry>
    </row>
    <row>
      <entry>nLF</entry>
      <entry>14</entry>
      <entry></entry>
      <entry>E1</entry>
      <entry>*</entry>
    </row>
    <row>
      <entry>INIT</entry>
      <entry>16</entry>
      <entry></entry>
      <entry>E2</entry>
      <entry>*</entry>
    </row>
    <row>
      <entry>nSEL</entry>
      <entry>17</entry>
      <entry></entry>
      <entry>A0</entry>
      <entry>*</entry>
    </row>
    <row>
      <entry></entry>
      <entry></entry>
      <entry>VDD</entry>
      <entry>RESET/IF</entry>
      <entry>*</entry>
    </row>
  </tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>

</sect3>

</sect2>

<!-- ## Seiko Epson 1520 driver ## -->
<sect2 id="sed1520-config">
<title>Configuration in LCDd.conf</title>

<sect3 id="sed1520-config-section">
<title>[sed1520]</title>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
  <term>
    <property>Port</property> =
    <parameter><replaceable>PORT</replaceable></parameter>
  </term>
  <listitem><para>
    Specify the address of the parallel port the LCD is connected to.
    Common values for <replaceable>PORT</replaceable> are <literal>0x278</literal>,
    <literal>0x378</literal> and <literal>0x3BC</literal>.
    The default value is <literal>0x378</literal>.
  </para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
  <term>
    <property>InterfaceType</property> =
    <parameter><replaceable>INTERFACE</replaceable></parameter>
  </term>
  <listitem><para>
    The SED1520 chip can be driven with one of two interface types selected by
    the level of the RESET line: 68-style MCU interface (high level) or
    80-style MCU interface (low level).
  </para><para>
    Use value <literal>68</literal> if your display is connected using
    &quot;68 family MPU&quot; style. In this mode E1 and E2 lines are cycled to
    write the data. If you use <literal>80</literal> (the default),
    &quot;80 family MPU&quot; style is selected and the /WR line is cycled and
    /CS1 and /CS2 lines are required.
  </para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
  <term>
    <property>DelayMult</property> =
    <parameter><replaceable>DELAY</replaceable></parameter>
  </term>
  <listitem><para>
    This value adds an additional delay to each write, in microseconds. For
    the 80-style connection type actual two delays are added each. The
    default value of <literal>1</literal> already slows down communication a
    lot, larger value should likely be avoided.
  </para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
  <term>
    <property>haveInverter</property> = &parameters.yesdefno;
  </term>
  <listitem><para>
    The original wiring by Robin used an inverter to drive the control lines.
    If you do not use an inverter set this to <literal>no</literal>.
  </para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

</sect3>

</sect2>

</sect1>
