<sect1 id="serialVFD-howto">
<title>The serialVFD Driver</title>

<para>
This section talks about using LCDproc with LCD displays that use the
serialVFD chipset.
</para>

<sect2 id="serialVFD-connections">
<title>Connections</title>


The serialVFD-driver should work with all NEC FIPC8367 based VFDs:
NEC FC20X2JA
NEC FM20X2KB-AB
NEC FC20X1SA-AB/AA
...
Tested only on: NEC FM20X2KB-AB
The driver also works (tested) on "KD Rev 2.1" (an ATMEL AT90S....
based FM20X2KB-AB replacement).
Note: Above char. 128 the FIPC-displays and KD's charactersets
are different.

The driver may work or will be easy to get working on the following
Displays / Controllers (not tested!).

<table>
<tgroup cols="2">
  <thead>
    <row>
      <entry>Display</entry>
      <entry>Controller</entry>
    </row>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <row>
      <entry>FUTABA M204SD01AA</entry>
      <entry>FUTABA 5P00A016</entry>
    </row>
    <row>
      <entry>Noritake CU20026SCPB-T</entry>
      <entry>(microcontroller)</entry>
    </row>
    <row>
      <entry>Noritake CU20045SCPB-T28A</entry>
      <entry>?</entry>
    </row>
  </tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>

... or compatible.
(most Futaba/Noritake 7x5 dot VFDs with serial(rs232) interface
(including  serial(rs232)/parallel types))

<para>
Maybe there are little changes in the commands to do to get all
functions to work correctly. But because of the similarity of the
protocols, it wont be much work.
</para>

<para>
If you want to add a new device to the driver add a new section
to the displaytype-switch-case in the init-function and fill it
with the correct commands for the display.
(Try which displaytype works best with your display, copy and modify
it's section that is the easiest way I guess.)
</para>

<para>
On this page you may find pictures and datasheets of the VFDs:
<ulink url="http://www.maltepoeggel.de/html/vfd/index.html"></ulink>
</para>

<para>
It is possible to switch the display off and back on while the server is
running. It may take a few minutes until the next full refresh makes
the display show everything correctly.
</para>

<para>
To enable the bignumbers on 2-line displays (only this driver supports
this yet) you have to edit <filename>clients/lcdproc/chrono.c</filename>
before compiling.
In function <function>big_clock_screen</function> you have to replace the
<literal>4</literal> by a <literal>2</literal> in this line:
<code>if (lcd_hgt &lt; 4)</code>
</para>

<para>
This driver uses the serial mode of the displays.
It is NOT possible to connect most of the displays directly to the
serialport. The signal has to be inverted. I use the following
circuit to do that job.
</para>

<figure>
<title>serialVFD: Connecting the display</title>
<screen>
<![CDATA[
Computer                                          Display
						  (signal)
HDD Powerconnector
color(Voltage)

red(+5V)    --------------------------------o----- +5V
					    |
black(GND)  --------------------o           |
				|           R
				|           R 10k
Serial(SUB-D 9Pin female)       V*          R
pin(signal)                                 |
					    |
3(TxD)  --RRRR--o--o      o-----------------o----- RxD
	  10k   |  |      |
		|  |     C|
		|  |   -----  BC547c (or similar NPN)
		R  | B|  /  |
	    10k R  o--|-|   |
		R     |  \  |
		|      --->-    A*
		|         E|    |
		|          |    |
5(GND)  --------o----------o----o----------------- GND

Shield  ------------------------------------------
optional

*connect near display
]]>
</screen>
</figure>

The pins on the different displays vary.


FM20X2KB-AB:

CN1:
Pin 33 &lt;--- RxD
(Testmode: connect pins 25 and 26, then power up)

CN2:
Pin 1  &lt;--- +5V
Pin 2  &lt;--- GND



KD Rev 2.1:

blue connector (6pin in a row) (the important one!):

<screen>
<![CDATA[
--------------------------------
| +5V  +5V  RxD  GND  GND  GND |
--------------------------------
]]>
</screen>

<tip>
  <para>
  Hold the display in that position where you can read
  the "KD Rev 2.1" marking normally!
  </para>
</tip>  

gray connector (10pin 2 rows):
Do not use. (the ATMEL ISP connector I guess)

The two jumpers next to the gray connector:
Normally not used.
You can activate two different testmodes with them.

</sect2>

<!-- ## Serial VFD driver ## -->
<sect2 id="serialVFD-config">
<title>Configuration in LCDd.conf</title>

<sect3>
<title>[serialVFD]</title>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
  <term>
    <command>Device=</command>
    <arg choice="plain"><replaceable>DEVICE</replaceable></arg>
  </term>
  <listitem><para>
    Device where the VFD is. Usual values are <filename>/dev/ttyS0</filename> and <filename>/dev/ttyS1</filename>
    Default: <filename>/dev/lcd</filename>
  </para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
  <term>
    <command>Size=</command>
    <arg choice="plain">
      <replaceable>WIDTH</replaceable>
      <literal>x</literal>
      <replaceable>HEIGHT</replaceable>
    </arg>
  </term>
  <listitem><para>
    Specifies the size of the VFD.
    default: <literal>20x2</literal>
  </para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
  <term>
    <command>Type=</command>
    <arg choice="plain"><replaceable>CODE</replaceable></arg>
  </term>
  <listitem>
    <para>
    Specifies the display type.[default: 0]
    The following type codes are available:
    </para>
    <informaltable>
    <tgroup cols="2">
      <thead>
        <row>
	  <entry><replaceable>CODE</replaceable></entry>
	  <entry>VFD model</entry>
	</row>
      </thead>
      <tbody>
        <row>
	  <entry><literal><emphasis>0</emphasis></literal></entry>
	  <entry>NEC (FIPC8367 based) VFDs</entry>
	</row>
        <row>
	  <entry><literal>1</literal></entry>
	  <entry>KD Rev 2.1</entry>
	</row>
        <row>
	  <entry><literal>2</literal></entry>
	  <entry>Noritake VFDs</entry>
	</row>
        <row>
	  <entry><literal>3</literal></entry>
	  <entry>Futaba VFDs</entry>
	</row>
      </tbody>
    </tgroup>
    </informaltable>
    <note><para>
      Options 3 and 4 should work, but have not been tested yet. Feedback is welcome.
    </para></note>
  </listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
  <term>
    <command>Brightness=</command>
    <arg choice="plain"><replaceable>BRIGHTNESS</replaceable></arg>
  </term>
  <listitem><para>
    Display brightness [default: 255].
  0 min ... 255 max ... 1000 also max
  (4 steps 0-64, 65-128, 129-192, 193-1000)
  </para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
  <term>
    <command>Speed=</command>
    <arg choice="plain">
    <group choice="req">
      <arg choice="plain"><literal>1200</literal></arg>
      <arg choice="plain"><literal>2400</literal></arg>
      <arg choice="plain"><literal><emphasis>9600</emphasis></literal></arg>
      <arg choice="plain"><literal>19200</literal></arg>
      <arg choice="plain"><literal>115200</literal></arg>
    </group>
    </arg>
  </term>
  <listitem><para>
    Set the the baud rate communication with the VFD.
    If not given, it defaults to <literal>9600</literal>.
  </para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
  <term>
    <command>ISO_8859_1=</command>
    <arg choice="plain">
    <group choice="req">
      <arg choice="plain"><literal><emphasis>yes</emphasis></literal></arg>
      <arg choice="plain"><literal>no</literal></arg>
    </group>
    </arg>
  </term>
  <listitem><para>
    Enable ISO-8859-1 compatibility. Ddefault is <literal>yes</literal>.
  </para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

</sect3>

</sect2>

</sect1>

