<sect1 id="shuttleVFD-howto">
<title>The shuttleVFD Driver</title>

<sect2 id="shuttleVFD-features">
<title>Features</title>

<para>
The shuttleVFD drivers works with Shuttle Computer Group VFDs. These VFDs are
found on various Shuttle XPC models. A partial list include Shuttle M1000,
Shuttle M2000, Shuttle G5 3300m and Shuttle SG33G5M.
</para>

<para>
The display itself is a 20x1 character display. Each character cell is 5x8
pixels. It also has smaller row of specialized icons: clock, radio, music,
CD/DVD, television, camera, rewind, record, play, pause, stop, fast-forward,
reverse, repeat, mute, and a series of volume bars. Some or all of the icons
can be displayed.
</para>

<para>
The display is driven by Princeton Technologies PT6314 VFD Controller according
to the sources cited in the driver source. The PT6314 is probably driven off
the Serial Peripheral Interface of a Cypress CY7C63723C low-speed USB
controller that is connected to the mainboard via USB. Data is written to the
Cypress CY7C63723C in bytes. The specifications for both the PT6314 and
CY7C63723C are available, but not used when writing this driver. It seems that
much more advanced uses are available if the specifications were to be used,
specifically pixel addressing.
</para>

<para>
A current limitation of the driver is that it sleeps for some number of
microseconds after writing to the display. If data is written to the display
too quickly, it is simply discarded therefore the driver must sleep. The sleep
time was experimentally found on a Shuttle M1000 machine and is hard-coded into
the driver. This maybe different for other machines and configurations. This
may occasionally cause the display to flicker or refresh unevenly across the
display. It seems that the PT6314 can signal when it has read the data from the
buffer, but this functionality is not used.
</para>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="shuttleVFD-config">
<title>Configuration in LCDd.conf</title>

<sect3 id="shuttleVFD-config-section">
<title>[shuttleVFD]</title>

<para>
There are no configuration options available for this display.
</para>

</sect3>

</sect2>

</sect1>
