<sect1 id="SureElec">
<title>The SureElec Driver</title>

<para>
  Driver for the LCD modules (actually the controller board) available from
  the 'SURE electronics' shop (<ulink url="http://www.sureelectronics.net/"></ulink>).
</para>
<para>
  These devices are PIC based controlled, using a serial communication
  protocol with the host. The actual connection to host is done through
  USB through a serial-to-USB converter (CP2102 USB to UART Bridge)
  integrated on the board.
</para>

<sect2 id="SureElec-config">
<title>Configuration in LCDd.conf</title>

<sect3 id="SureElec-config-section">
<title>[SureElec]</title>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
  <term>
    <property>Device</property> =
    <parameter><replaceable>DEVICE</replaceable></parameter>
  </term>
  <listitem><para>
    Name of the device the display appears as. By default first USB serial device
    <literal>/dev/ttyUSB0</literal> is used.
  </para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
  <term>
    <property>Edition</property> =
    <parameter><replaceable>EDITION</replaceable></parameter>
  </term>
  <listitem><para>
    Edition level of the device (can be 1, 2 or 3). The default is <literal>2</literal>.
  </para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
  <term>
    <property>Size</property> = &parameters.size;
  </term>
  <listitem><para>
    Set the display size in characters. This is required for edition 1 devices.
    For edition 2 &amp; 3 devices this value, if defined, overrides the size
    read directly from the device.
  </para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
  <term>
    <property>Contrast</property> =
    <parameter><replaceable>CONTRAST</replaceable></parameter>
  </term>
  <listitem><para>
    Select the display's contrast, <literal>480</literal> is the default.
    Permissible values are in the range of <literal>0</literal>-<literal>1000</literal>.
  </para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
  <term>
    <property>Brightness</property> =
    <parameter><replaceable>BRIGHTNESS</replaceable></parameter>
  </term>
  <listitem><para>
    Select the display's brightness, <literal>480</literal> is the default.
    Permissible values are in the range of <literal>0</literal>-<literal>1000</literal>.
  </para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
  <term>
    <property>OffBrightness</property> =
    <parameter><replaceable>OFFBRIGHTNESS</replaceable></parameter>
  </term>
  <listitem><para>
    Select the display's when the display is normally switched off in case LCDd
    is inactive, <literal>100</literal> is the default.
    Permissible values are in the range of <literal>0</literal>-<literal>1000</literal>.
  </para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>

</sect3>

</sect2>

</sect1>
