<sect1 id="t6963-howto">
<title>The Toshiba T6963 Driver</title>

<para>
This section talks about using LCDproc with LCD displays that use the
T6963 chipset from Toshiba. Usually, this chipset is used on big graphical LCD
displays that can often act as a screen.
</para>

<para>
The driver uses the text mode of the chipset with a custom font loaded which
resembles the characters from HD44780 ROM 002 character set (European
character set). If your display has a 'Font Select' pin it must be wired to
use the 6x8 font.
</para>

<para>
Only displays in 'Single Scan' configurations are supported. Displays configured
as 'Dual Scan' are currently not supported. Those use on-board memory differently.
Check the datasheet of your display!
</para>

<sect2 id="t6963-connections">
<title>Connections</title>

<warning>
  <para>
  Displays using T6963 chipset come in a variety of pin-outs and power configurations.
  They usually require negative voltage for contrast and some displays have
  a negative voltage generator on-board. Therefore the wiring table below does
  only list signal names, not LCD pins. Be sure to get the correct datasheet
  for your display and identify the pins to use!
  </para>
  <para>
  We do not give wiring examples for power, contrast, and other control lines.
  You have to figure out this from your display's datasheet!
  </para>
</warning>

<table id="t6963-connections.mapping">
<title>T6963 wiring schematic</title>
<tgroup cols="5" align="left">
<colspec colname="lpt1"/>
<colspec colname="lpt2" align="right"/>
<colspec colname="base" align="center"/>
<colspec colname="lcd1"/>
<colspec colname="lcd2"/>
  <thead>
    <row>
      <entry namest="lpt1" nameend="lpt2" align="center">Parallel port</entry>
      <entry morerows="1">&lt;-&gt;</entry>
      <entry namest="lcd1" nameend="lcd2" align="center">LCD</entry>
    </row>
    <row>
      <entry>name</entry>
      <entry>pin</entry>
      <entry>name</entry>
      <entry>pin</entry>
    </row>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <row>
      <entry>nSTRB</entry>
      <entry>1</entry>
      <entry></entry>
      <entry>/WR</entry>
      <entry>*</entry>
    </row>
    <row>
      <entry>D0-D7</entry>
      <entry>2-9</entry>
      <entry></entry>
      <entry>DB0-DB7</entry>
      <entry>*</entry>
    </row>
    <row>
      <entry>nLF</entry>
      <entry>14</entry>
      <entry></entry>
      <entry>/CE</entry>
      <entry>*</entry>
    </row>
    <row>
      <entry>INIT</entry>
      <entry>16</entry>
      <entry></entry>
      <entry>C/D</entry>
      <entry>*</entry>
    </row>
    <row>
      <entry>nSEL</entry>
      <entry>17</entry>
      <entry></entry>
      <entry>/RD</entry>
      <entry>*</entry>
    </row>
    <row>
      <entry></entry>
      <entry></entry>
      <entry>VDD</entry>
      <entry>FS</entry>
      <entry>*</entry>
    </row>
  </tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="t6963-compiling">
<title>Compiling</title>

<para>
Make sure that the T6963 files are built when you run configure. This
can be done by specifying "--enable-drivers=all" or by
"--enable-drivers=t6963".
</para>

</sect2>

<!-- ## Toshiba T6963 driver ## -->
<sect2 id="t6963-config">
<title>Configuration in LCDd.conf</title>

<sect3 id="t6963-config-section">
<title>[t6963]</title>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
  <term>
    <property>Size</property> = &parameters.size;
  </term>
  <listitem><para>
    Set display size in pixels [default: <literal>128x64</literal>]. The size
    in characters is automatically calculated assuming the font size is set to
    <literal>6x8</literal> for the display.
  </para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
  <term>
    <property>Port</property> =
    <parameter><replaceable>PORT</replaceable></parameter>
  </term>
  <listitem><para>
    Specify the address of the parallel port the LCD is connected to.
    Common values for <replaceable>PORT</replaceable> are <literal>0x278</literal>,
    <literal>0x378</literal> and <literal>0x3BC</literal>.
    Legal values are <literal>0x200</literal> - <literal>0x400</literal>.
    If not given the default value is <literal>0x378</literal>.
  </para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
  <term>
    <property>bidirectional</property> = &parameters.yesdefno;
  </term>
  <listitem>
  <para>
    Use LPT port in bi-directional mode. [default: <literal>yes</literal>;
    legal: <literal>yes</literal>, <literal>no</literal>]
  </para>
  <para>
    Most LPT ports can be used in bi-directional mode. It is required for
    proper timing of the display. Leave this on unless you experience problems.
  </para>
  </listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
  <term>
    <property>ClearGraphic</property> = &parameters.yesnodef;
  </term>
  <listitem>
  <para>
     Clear graphic memory on start-up [default: <literal>no</literal>;
     legal: <literal>yes</literal>, <literal>no</literal>]. The T6963 has a
     graphic and a text area which can be combined using several modes. This
     driver uses default OR-mode. Usually the graphic area is empty after
     power-on but if you see random garbage overlaying the text this option
     may be enabled.
  </para>
  </listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
  <term>
    <property>delayBus</property> = &parameters.yesnodef;
  </term>
  <listitem>
  <para>
     Use additional delay in read / write operations. [default: <literal>no</literal>;
     legal: <literal>yes</literal>, <literal>no</literal>]. The display can
     execute operations very fast. As the driver implements busy checking no
     additional delays are required. But if you experience problems you may
     try to slow down communication by enabling this setting.
  </para>
  </listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

</sect3>

</sect2>

</sect1>
