<chapter id="add-your-driver">
<title>Adding your driver to LCDproc</title>

<sect1 id="add-your-driver-intro">
<title>Introduction</title>

<para>
LCDproc is meant to be modular, it is relatively easy to add new input and
output drivers to LCDproc.
</para>

<para>
This chapter will explain you the major steps and few gotchas of adding your
own driver to LCDproc. Enjoy!
</para>

<para>
Be sure to read <xref linkend="programming"/> and <xref linkend="driver-api"/>
as well.
</para>

<para>
As a starting point you may take a look at the debug driver. It is available
as <filename>server/drivers/debug.c</filename>.
</para>

</sect1>


<sect1 id="driverrules">
<title>Rules for accepting new drivers</title>

<para>LCDproc is open source software. Anyone is free to take LCDproc's code, write
his own driver and publish the modified sources somewhere again. If you want your
driver to be included in LCDproc's code some conditions have to be met:</para>

<orderedlist>
<listitem>
  <para>The hardware (display or enclosing product) is publicly sold
  <emphasis>OR</emphasis> the schematics and firmware (if required) are publicly
  available.
    <footnote><para>Therefore I will not commit drivers for displays ripped out
    from an old telephone for your private hardware project and are not
    available otherwise.</para></footnote>
  </para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
  <para>The driver is released under (L)GPL and has an appropriate
  copyright notice.</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
  <para>The submitter is or is acting on behalf of the original driver
  developer.
    <footnote><para>I will not submit drivers found somewhere on the internet and
    submitted without the original developer's written acknowledgement.</para></footnote>
  </para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
  <para>The driver description contains a valid email address for contacting
  the submitter or developer.</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
  <para>The code is commented <emphasis>AND</emphasis> includes appropriate
  Doxygen comments, especially for internal / non-API functions.</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
  <para>End user documentation (updates to man pages <emphasis>AND</emphasis>
  User's Guide in Docbook format) is available.</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
  <para>Driver options are described in the end user documentation
  <emphasis>AND</emphasis> <filename>LCDd.conf</filename>.</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
  <para>The driver adheres to the style guide as described in <xref linkend="code-style"/>.</para>
</listitem>
</orderedlist>

</sect1>


<sect1 id="autoconfautomake">
<title>Autoconf, automake, and Everything!</title>

<para>How I Learned to Stop Worrying and Love the Configure Script</para>

<para>
It was decided pretty early in LCDproc's life to use GNU autoconf and GNU
automake. This allows LCDproc to be ported to several platforms with much
less effort. It can be quite daunting to understand how autoconf &amp;
automake interact with each others and with your code, but don't be
discouraged. We have taken great care in making this as simple as possible
for programmers to add their own driver to LCDproc. Hopefully, you'll only
have to modify two files, one for autoconf and one for automake.
</para>

<para>
The first thing you need to do is to find a name for your driver, it should
be as descriptive as possible; most drivers are named after their respective
chipset, for example hd44780, mtc_s16209x, sed1330 and stv5730, others are
named after the company that makes that particular LCD display, for example
CFontz and MtxOrb. Remember that these names are case sensitive. In this
chapter, we'll use myDriver (which is an absolute non-descriptive name).
</para>

<sect2 id="autoconf">
<title>Autoconf and its friend, acinclude.m4</title>

<para>
You need to add your driver to function LCD_DRIVERS_SELECT of file
acinclude.m4. This can be done in three steps.
</para>

<sect3 id="autoconf-step1">
<title>Step 1</title>
<para>
First you need to add your driver name to the list of possible choices in the help screen.
</para>

<para>This:</para>
<screen>
AC_ARG_ENABLE(drivers,
	[  --enable-drivers=&lt;list&gt; compile driver for LCDs in &lt;list&gt;.]
	[                  drivers may be separated with commas.]
	[                  Possible choices are:]
	[                    bayrad,CFontz,CFontz633,CFontzPacket,curses,CwLnx,]
	[                    glcdlib,glk,hd44780,icp_a106,imon,IOWarrior,irman,]
	[                    joy,lb216,lcdm001,lcterm,lirc,ms6931,mtc_s16209x,]
	[                    MtxOrb,NoritakeVFD,pyramid,sed1330,sed1520,serialVFD,]
	[                    sli,stv5730,svga,t6963,text,tyan,ula200,xosd]
	[                  'all' compiles all drivers;]
	[                  'all,!xxx,!yyy' de-selects previously selected drivers],
	drivers="$enableval",
</screen>
<para>becomes:</para>
<screen>
AC_ARG_ENABLE(drivers,
	[  --enable-drivers=&lt;list&gt; compile driver for LCDs in &lt;list&gt;.]
	[                  drivers may be separated with commas.]
	[                  Possible choices are:]
	[                    bayrad,CFontz,CFontz633,CFontzPacket,curses,CwLnx,]
	[                    glcdlib,glk,hd44780,icp_a106,imon,IOWarrior,irman,]
	[                    joy,lb216,lcdm001,lcterm,lirc,ms6931,mtc_s16209x,]
	[                    MtxOrb,NoritakeVFD,pyramid,sed1330,sed1520,serialVFD,]
	[                    sli,stv5730,svga,t6963,text,tyan,ula200,xosd,<emphasis>myDriver</emphasis>]
	[                  'all' compiles all drivers;]
	[                  'all,!xxx,!yyy' de-selects previously selected drivers],
	drivers="$enableval",
</screen>
</sect3>

<sect3 id="autoconf-step2">
<title>Step 2</title>

<para>Second, you need to add your driver to the list of all drivers.</para>

<para>This:</para>
<screen>
allDrivers=[bayrad,CFontz,CFontz633,...(big list)...,tyan,ula200,xosd]
</screen>
<para>becomes:</para>
<screen>
allDrivers=[bayrad,CFontz,CFontz633,...(big list)...,tyan,ula200,xosd,<emphasis>myDriver</emphasis>]
</screen>

</sect3>

<sect3 id="autoconf-step3">
<title>Step 3</title>

<para>Then last, you need to add your driver to be big switch-case in this function, see below.</para>

<screen>
		myDriver)
			DRIVERS="$DRIVERS myDriver${SO}"
			actdrivers=["$actdrivers myDriver"]
			;;
</screen>

<para>
If your driver only works in some platform or requires a particular library
or header, you can add your autoconf test here. You can see how other drivers
do it, but if you're not sure on how to do this, just send an email to the
mailing list and we'll make it for you.
</para>

</sect3>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="automake">
<title>Automake and its friend, Makefile.am</title>

<para>Already half of the job is done! Not to bad, wasn't it? The rest
should be just as easy. In this section, you'll be adding your driver to the
file server/drivers/Makefile.am. As you can guess, it's the Makefile for the
drivers. This can be done in three (or two) simple steps.</para>

<sect3 id="automake-step1">
<title>Step 1</title>

<para>First, you need to add your driver to the list of drivers in this file,
this list is called EXTRA_PROGRAMS.</para>

<para>This</para>
<screen>
EXTRA_PROGRAMS = bayrad CFontz ...(big list)... ula200 xosd
</screen>
<para>becomes</para>
<screen>
EXTRA_PROGRAMS = bayrad CFontz ...(big list)... ula200 xosd <emphasis>myDriver</emphasis>
</screen>

</sect3>

<sect3 id="automake-step2">
<title>Step 2</title>

<para>This second step is only needed if your driver needs a particular
library. If it doesn't, you can skip to step 3.</para>

<para>You basically need to put you driver name followed by _LDADD and equal
this to the name of the library that you need. Usually, these library are
substituted by a autoconf variable, if you're not comfortable with this, you
send an email to the mailing list and we'll set this up for you.</para>

<para>For example, we would put this for our fictional driver</para>
<screen>
myDriver_LDADD = @SOMESTRANGELIB@
</screen>

</sect3>

<sect3 id="automake-step3">
<title>Step 3</title>

<para>
Last but not least, you need to specify which source files should be
associated with your driver. You put your driver name followed by
<literal>_SOURCES</literal> and equal this to a space separated list
of the source and header files. See below for an example.</para>

<screen>
myDriver_SOURCES =  lcd.h myDriver.c myDriver.h report.h
</screen>

</sect3>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="autoconfautomake-test">
<title>Test your setup</title>

<para>
You're almost done! You only need to check out if you didn't made any mistake.
Just run sh autogen.sh to regenerate the configure script and Makefiles,
then run ./configure --enable-drivers=myDriver and type make.
If your driver compiles without error, then congratulations, you've just added
your driver to LCDproc! Remember to submit a patch to the mailing list so that
we can add it to the standard distribution, but do not forget the documentation.
</para>

<para>
If you had an error, just send us an email describing it to the mailing list and we'll try to help you.
</para>

</sect2>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="documentation">
<title>It's all about documentation</title>

<para>
Please do not forget to also add the required documentation,
so that your driver can be used from others as well.
</para>

<sect2 id="documentation-source">
<title>Within the source code</title>

<para>
We use Doxygen to document functions and data types. The doxygen documentation
can be created anytime by changing to the <filename>docs/</filename> directory
and running <command>doxygen</command>.
</para>
<para>
When documenting your driver's API functions you may use a short hand version
and add 'API:' to the beginning of your comment and leave out the parameter
and return value description (as we know what the API is doing). If you use
some clever algorithm inside a function please add a few words about it.
</para>
<note>
<para>
Always document functions internal to the driver! We do know what the API
does (or is expected to do) but we don't know about what your driver does
internally.
</para>
<para>
Read <xref linkend="code-style-comments"/> on how for format comments.
</para>
</note>

</sect2>


<sect2 id="documentation-LCDd.conf">
<title>The configuration file, LCDd.conf</title>

<para>
Extend the LCDproc server's configuration file with a section that holds
a standard configuration for your driver together with short descriptions
of the options used.
</para>

<screen>
&hellip;
<emphasis>
## MyDriver for MyDevice ##
[MyDriver]

# Select the output device to use [default: /dev/lcd]
Device=/dev/ttyS0

# Set the display size [default: 20x4]
Size=20x4
</emphasis>
&hellip;
</screen>

</sect2>


<sect2 id="documentation-manpage">
<title>The daemon's manual page, LCDd.8</title>

<para>
Append your driver to the list of drivers in <filename>docs/LCDd.8.in</filename>,
the manual page of LCD, so that users can find your driver when doing <userinput>man LCDd</userinput>.
</para>

<screen>
&hellip;
.TP
.B ms6931
MSI-6931 displays in 1U rack servers by MSI
.TP
.B mtc_s16209x
MTC_S16209x LCD displays by Microtips Technology Inc
.TP
.B MtxOrb
Matrix Orbital displays (except Matrix Orbital GLK displays)
<emphasis>.TP</emphasis>
<emphasis>.B MyDriver</emphasis>
<emphasis>displays connected using MyDevice</emphasis>
.TP
.B NoritakeVFD
Noritake VFD Device CU20045SCPB-T28A
.TP
.B pyramid
LCD displays from Pyramid (http://www.pyramid.de)
.TP
.B sed1330
SED1330/SED1335 (aka S1D13300/S1D13305) based graphical displays
&hellip;
</screen>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="documentation-userdocbook">
<title>The user guide</title>

<sect3 id="userdocbook-file">
<title>Step 1</title>

<para>
Please add a file <filename>myDriver.docbook</filename>,
that describes the configuration of your driver and the hard/software needed,
to the directory <filename>docs/lcdproc-user/drivers/</filename>.
</para>

</sect3>

<sect3 id="userdocbook-defentity">
<title>Step 2</title>

<para>
Define a Docbook entity for your driver file in <filename>lcdproc-user.docbook</filename>.
</para>

<screen>
&hellip;
&lt;!ENTITY ms6931 SYSTEM "drivers/ms6931.docbook"&gt;
&lt;!ENTITY mtc_s16209x SYSTEM "drivers/mtc_s16209x.docbook"&gt;
&lt;!ENTITY MtxOrb SYSTEM "drivers/mtxorb.docbook"&gt;
<emphasis>&lt;!ENTITY MyDriver SYSTEM "drivers/MyDriver.docbook"&gt;</emphasis>
&lt;!ENTITY NoritakeVFD SYSTEM "drivers/NoritakeVFD.docbook"&gt;
&lt;!ENTITY pylcd SYSTEM "drivers/pylcd.docbook"&gt;
&lt;!ENTITY sed1330 SYSTEM "drivers/sed1330.docbook"&gt;
&hellip;
</screen>

</sect3>

<sect3 id="userdocbook-useentity">
<title>Step 3</title>

<para>
Add the freshly defined entity to <filename>drivers.docbook</filename>
to include the documentation of your driver into the
<emphasis>LCDproc User's Guide</emphasis>.
</para>

<screen>
&hellip;
&amp;ms6931;
&amp;mtc_s16209x;
&amp;MtxOrb;
<emphasis>&amp;MyDriver;</emphasis>
&amp;NoritakeVFD;
&amp;pylcd;
&amp;sed1330;
&hellip;
</screen>

</sect3>

<sect3 id="userdocbook-docmakefile">
<title>Step 4</title>

<para>
Add the newly defined file <filename>myDriver.docbook</filename>
to the Makefile in the directory <filename>docs/lcdproc-user/drivers/</filename>.
</para>

<screen>
## Process this file with automake to produce Makefile.in

EXTRA_DIST =	bayrad.docbook \
		CFontz.docbook \
		...
		<emphasis>MyDriver.docbook \</emphasis>
		...
## EOF
</screen>

</sect3>

</sect2>

</sect1>

</chapter>
