<chapter id="programming">
<title>Programming for LCDproc</title>

<sect1 id="getting-source">
<title>Get the source</title>

<para>If you want to start programming for LCDproc you will need the have
the most current source code available. You can get it several ways:</para>

<orderedlist>
  <listitem>
    <para>Download yesterday's CVS version of as a tarball (preferred).</para>
  </listitem>
  <listitem>
    <para>Download the latest version from CVS.</para>
  </listitem>
  <listitem>
    <para>Download the last stable release from Sourceforge. (This is not
    recommended as stable release may be months behind the current version.)
    </para>
  </listitem>
</orderedlist>

<sect2 id="downloadtar">
<title>Download Yesterday's CVS Version of LCDproc as a Tarball</title>

<para>
There are nightly distributions of the CVS branches of LCDproc. You can
download them from <ulink url="http://lcdproc.sourceforge.net/nightly/"></ulink>.
For development we recommended to use the 'current' branch.
</para>

<para>
To extract the files run
</para>

<screen>
<prompt>$</prompt> <userinput>tar xvfz lcdproc-CVS-current.tar.gz</userinput>
</screen>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="downloadcvs">
<title>Download The Latest Version of LCDproc from CVS</title>

<para>
Of course you can download the latest stuff from CVS via anonymous login.
For more information on how to use CVS see
<ulink url="http://sourceforge.net/scm/?type=cvs&amp;group_id=119">About CVS</ulink>
on Sourceforge.
</para>

<para>
Login to CVS:
</para>

<screen>
<prompt>$</prompt> <userinput>cvs -d:pserver:anonymous@lcdproc.cvs.sourceforge.net:/cvsroot/lcdproc login</userinput>
</screen>

<para>
(Hit enter when prompted for a password.)
</para>

<para>
Get the files from CVS:
</para>

<screen>
<prompt>$</prompt> <userinput>cvs -d:pserver:anonymous@lcdproc.cvs.sourceforge.net:/cvsroot/lcdproc checkout -P lcdproc</userinput>
</screen>

<para>
Once you've done that and want to update the downloaded files to the latest stuff
you can use the "update" command of CVS (make sure to be in the lcdproc directory!):
</para>

<screen>
<prompt>$</prompt> <userinput>cvs update -d</userinput>
</screen>

<para>
Now that once you have downloaded the files you can prepare them for
compiling, but first you should (you don't have to) copy them to another
place on your machine.
</para>

</sect2>

</sect1>



<sect1 id="code-style">
<title>Code style guideline</title>

<para>
LCDproc has been developed by many contributors over many years. You may find
different programming styles (naming, indention, etc) in the source code.
</para>
<para>
When modifying an existing file, please take a careful look at its style and
program continuing that style instead of mixing it up with another one even
if it does not comply with the guidelines written below.
</para>
<para>
For newly added files the following guideline describes how source code
should look like.
</para>
<note>
  <para>
  All new submitted files will be passed through GNU <command>indent</command>
  to enforce the style described below.
  </para>
</note>

<sect2 id="code-style-indention">
<title>File format and indention</title>
<itemizedlist mark="opencircle">
  <listitem>
    <para>
    <emphasis>Language: </emphasis>The programming language used for LCDd
    (server core), drivers and the lcdproc client is <literal>C</literal>.
    No other programming language will be accepted.
    </para>
  </listitem>
  <listitem>
    <para>
    <emphasis>File encoding: </emphasis>Files shall either encoded as UTF-8 or
    ISO-8859-1 and line endings shall be Unix type.
    </para>
  </listitem>
  <listitem>
    <para>
    <emphasis>Line length: </emphasis>Lines of source code should be wrapped
    at column 100. Comment lines should wrap at column 79.
    </para>
  </listitem>
  <listitem>
    <para>
    <emphasis>Indention: </emphasis>Tab indention shall be used (with tab
    width set to 8 characters).
    </para>
  </listitem>
  <listitem>
    <para>
    <emphasis>License: </emphasis>LCDproc is released under GNU General Public
    License version 2 (GPL v2) and every file shall have a standard copyright
    notice.
    </para>
  </listitem>
</itemizedlist>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="code-style-naming">
<title>Naming conventions</title>
<itemizedlist mark="opencircle">
  <listitem>
    <para>
    <emphasis>Function names:</emphasis>
    Function names shall be lowercase. We do not use CamelCase (some
    historical exceptions may exist). Multiple words are separated by
    underscore.
    </para>
  </listitem>
  <listitem>
    <para>
    <emphasis>Variable names:</emphasis>
    We do not use Hungarian Notation. CamelCase may be used,
    but names shall begin with a lowercase letter.
    </para>
  </listitem>
    <listitem>
    <para>
    <emphasis>Constants:</emphasis>
    Constants shall be written in uppercase using underscore to
    separate multiple words.
    </para>
  </listitem>
</itemizedlist>
<example>
  <title>Names of constants, variables and functions</title>
  <screen>
/* Constants */
#define KEYPAD_AUTOREPEAT_DELAY 500
#define KEYPAD_AUTOREPEAT_FREQ 15

/* Variable names */
MODULE_EXPORT char * api_version = API_VERSION;
MODULE_EXPORT int stay_in_foreground = 0;
MODULE_EXPORT int supports_multiple = 1;

/* Function names */
void HD44780_position(Driver *drvthis, int x, int y);
static void uPause(PrivateData *p, int usecs);
unsigned char HD44780_scankeypad(PrivateData *p);
  </screen>
</example>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="code-style-comments">
<title>Comments</title>
<itemizedlist mark="opencircle">
  <listitem>
    <para>
    All code comments shall be <literal>C</literal>-style comments (/* */).
    Comments spanning multiple lines shall have a star at the beginning of
    each line.
    </para>
  </listitem>
  <listitem>
    <para>
    <literal>C++</literal>-style comments (//) may be used to comment out
    single lines of code to disable these lines. Larger blocks of code which
    shall be disabled should be wrapped within <literal>C</literal>-style
    comments or using pre-processor directives (#if ... #endif).
    </para>
    <para>
    <literal>C++</literal>-style comments should not be used in general.
    </para>
  </listitem>
  <listitem>
    <para>
    We use Doxygen to document our source code. Functions shall be documented
    using Doxygen-style comments (/** *).
    See <ulink url="http://www.stack.nl/~dimitri/doxygen/manual.html">Doxygen Manual</ulink>
    for more information and how to use it.
    </para>
  </listitem>
  <listitem>
    <para>
    If you carefully formatted a comment, you may use the special comment
    /*- */ (comment start is <quote>star minus</quote>) to prevent automatic
    reformatting. This usually applies to the standard copyright notice.
    </para>
    <example>
      <title>Standard copyright notice</title>
      <screen>
/*-
 * Copyright (C) 2010 Your Name &lt;your_email_address&gt;
 *
 * This file is released under the GNU General Public License.
 * Refer to the COPYING file distributed with this package.
 */
      </screen>
    </example>
  </listitem>
</itemizedlist>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="code-style-statements">
<title>Statement style</title>
<itemizedlist mark="opencircle">
  <listitem>
    <para><emphasis>Function declarations:</emphasis></para>
    <para>
    Function declarations have their declaration and
    opening brace split across two lines.
    </para>
    <para>
    Function names start in column one. The return type is placed on the
    previous line.
    </para>
    <para>
    There is no space between the function name and '('.
    </para>
    <example>
      <title>A function declaration</title>
      <screen>
/**
 * This is a Doxygen function description.
 *
 * \param y     The number of years
 * \param str   Pointer to a string containing X
 * \return      0 on success; -1 on error
 */
int
this_is_a_function(int y, char *str)
{
	code
}
      </screen>
    </example>

  </listitem>
    <listitem>
    <para><emphasis>Operators:</emphasis></para>
    <para>
    There shall be a space characters before/after an operator or assignment,
    except for increment (<quote>++</quote>) or decrement (<quote>--</quote>)
    operators.
    </para>
    <example>
      <title>Space around operators</title>
      <screen>
if (p->dispSizes[dispID - 1] == 1 &amp;&amp; p->width == 16) {
	if (x >= 8) {
		x -= 8;
		relY = 1;
	}
}

x--;			/* Convert 1-based coords to 0-based */
y--;
      </screen>
    </example>
  </listitem>

  <listitem>
    <para><emphasis>Function calls:</emphasis></para>
    <para>
    There shall be no space between the function call and the opening brace '(' of
    the parameter list. Within the parameter list a space shall be after each
    parameter.
    </para>
    <example>
      <title>Function call</title>
      <screen>
lib_vbar_static(drvthis, x, y, len, promille, options, p->cellheight, 0);
      </screen>
    </example>
  </listitem>

  <listitem>
    <para><emphasis>Compound statements:</emphasis></para>
    <para>
    Opening braces occur on the same line as the
    statement.
    </para>
    <para>
    Else statements: Else statements are placed on a line of their own, even
    is there is a previous closing brace.
    </para>
    <para>
    Opening and closing braces may be omitted on single line compound
    statements. However, if one part of an if-else-statement requires braces
    the other part shall have braces as well.
    </para>
    <example>
      <title>If-else with braces</title>
      <screen>
if (...) {
	code
}
else {
	code
}
      </screen>
    </example>
    <example>
      <title>If-else with single statements</title>
      <screen>
if (...)
	print();
else
	err = 1;
      </screen>
    </example>
    <example>
      <title>Other compound statements</title>
      <screen>
while (...) {
	code
}

for (a = 0; a &lt; max; a++) {
	code
}

/* case labels are not indented */
switch (icon) {
case ICON_BLOCK_FILLED:
	HD44780_set_char(drvthis, 6, block_filled);
	break;
case ICON_HEART_FILLED:
	HD44780_set_char(drvthis, 0, heart_filled);
	break;
case ICON_HEART_OPEN:
	HD44780_set_char(drvthis, 0, heart_open);
	break;
default:
	return -1;      /* Let the core do other icons */
}
      </screen>
    </example>
  </listitem>
</itemizedlist>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="code-style-indent-profile">
<title>Example indent profile</title>
  <para>The following example shows an indent profile that checks and corrects
  the coding style guideline described above. Copy the following text into
  file <filename>.indent.pro</filename> in your home directory.</para>
  <example>
    <title>indent.pro example</title>
    <screen>
-TPrivateData
-TDriver

-l100
-lc79
-i8
-ip8
-di1
-cd33
-ci8
-cli0
-ts8

-ut
-nsob
-sc
-psl
-npcs
-lp
-fc1
-nbc
-nce
-brs
-br
-sbi0
-saw
-sai
-saf
-nprs
-hnl
-fca
-cdw
-nbfda
-nbbo
-ncdb
-nbad
-cs
    </screen>
  </example>
</sect2>

</sect1>



<sect1 id="submitting-code">
<title>Submitting code</title>

<para>When you have finished modifying the code you may decide to submit it to
the LCDproc project. You usually do this by submitting a patch for review to the
mailing list.</para>

<para>To create a patch you need the unmodified files and the files containing
your modifications. Usually you do this by storing an unmodified copy of the
sources in one directory and another copy with your modifications in another
one. You then run <command>diff</command> like this:</para>

<para><command>diff</command><option>-urN</option>
<option>-X <replaceable>unmodified-dir</replaceable>/diff_ignore</option>
<option><replaceable>unmodified-dir</replaceable></option>
<option><replaceable>your-source-dir</replaceable></option>
&gt; <replaceable>mymodifications.patch</replaceable></para>

<important>
<para>Please use unified diff format (<option>-u</option> option) only!</para>
<para>When running <command>diff</command> using <option>-X diff_ignore</option>
is strongly recommended. The file <filename>diff_ignore</filename> contains an
exclusion list which makes <command>cvs</command> ignore all generated files
(Makefiles, log files, object files, etc.)</para>
</important>

<para>If you have modified files in a source tree you checked out from CVS
you can also run <command>cvs diff</command> from the working directory:</para>

<para><command>cvs diff</command><option>-u</option>
&gt; <replaceable>mymodifications.patch</replaceable></para>

<note>
<para>Some versions of <command>cvs diff</command> will not handle new files
because these are unknown to the repository. There are ways to make cvs believe
the files existed previously (fake add) but this is not recommended. You will
need to submit new files 'as-is' in this case.</para>
</note>

</sect1>

</chapter>
