<chapter id="releasing">
<title>Making a release</title>

<para>
This chapter describes the steps necessary to create a software release of
LCDproc. It is intended to guide the release manager when creating a new
release.
</para>

<sect1 id="releasing-software">
<title>Creating a source code release</title>

<procedure><title>Steps to create a new software release of LCDproc</title>
<step>
  <para>
  Update year of release in HEAD. The following files need to be updated:
  <itemizedlist spacing="compact">
    <listitem><para><filename>server/main.c</filename></para></listitem>
    <listitem><para><filename>clients/lcdproc/main.c</filename></para></listitem>
    <listitem><para><filename>docs/lcdproc-user/bookinfo.docbook</filename></para></listitem>
    <listitem><para><filename>docs/lcdproc-dev/bookinfo.docbook</filename></para></listitem>
  </itemizedlist>
  </para>
</step>

<step>
  <para>
  Make a backup of the CVS repository to the local disk. This is needed if
  something goes wrong. Run:
  <userinput>rsync -av 'lcdproc.cvs.sourceforge.net::cvsroot/lcdproc/*' .</userinput>
  </para>
</step>

<step>
  <para>
  Check out the CVS stable release branch. Run:
  <userinput>
  cvs -d:ext:<replaceable>&lt;your_sf_userid&gt;</replaceable>@lcdproc.cvs.sourceforge.net:/cvsroot/lcdproc checkout -r stable-0-5-x -d lcdproc-0-5-x lcdproc
  </userinput> and change into the <filename>stable-0-5-x</filename> directory.
  </para>
</step>

<step performance="optional">
  <para>
  Merge HEAD to stable. This step is only required if the release
  will be done from HEAD.
  </para>
  <substeps>
  <step>
    <para>
    Run:
    <userinput>cvs -q update -j stable-0-5-x -j HEAD</userinput>
    </para>
  </step>

  <step>
    <para>
    Update version numbers for stable branch. See <xref linkend="files-with-version-numbers"/>
    for the list of affected files.
    </para>
  </step>

  <step>
    <para>
    Commit everything. Run: <userinput>cvs commit -m "Sync with HEAD"</userinput>
    </para>
  </step>
  </substeps>
</step>

<step>
  <substeps>
  <step>
    <para>
    Tag the stable tree to indicate the file revision where the branch was
    made. This eases later diffs against that point.
    </para>
    <para>
    Run: <userinput>cvs tag LCDPROC_0_5_<replaceable>A</replaceable>_BP</userinput>
    (where <replaceable>A</replaceable> is the version number of the next
    release and <quote>_BP</quote> means <quote>branch point</quote>).
    </para>
    <note>
      <para>Tag names are all uppercase with underscores to separate elements!</para>
    </note>
  </step>
  <step>
    <para>
    Create a release branch in CVS. Run:
    <userinput>cvs tag -b lcdproc-0-5-<replaceable>A</replaceable></userinput>
    </para>
    <note>
      <para>Release branch names are all lowercase with hyphens to separate
      elements!</para>
    </note>
  </step>
  <step>
    <para>
    Now you have created a branch from which the new release will done. Before
    continuing either checkout this new branch to a new working directory
    or update the current one by running:
    <userinput>cvs update -r lcdproc-0-5-<replaceable>A</replaceable></userinput>
    </para>
  </step>
  </substeps>
</step>

<step>
  <para>
  Update version numbers for release and commit the changes. See
  <xref linkend="files-with-version-numbers"/> for the list of affected files.
  </para>
</step>

<step>
  <para>
  Set a CVS tag for the release. Run: <userinput>cvs tag LCDPROC_0_5_<replaceable>A</replaceable>_RELEASE</userinput>
  where <replaceable>A</replaceable> is the version number of the next release.
  </para>
</step>

<step>
  <para>
  Export the release source tree as anonymous. This step is intended to check
  if all files are correctly tagged with the new release in the source tree.
  </para>
  <para>
  Run: <userinput>cvs -d :pserver:anonymous@lcdproc.cvs.sourceforge.net:/cvsroot/lcdproc
  -z3 export -r LCDPROC_0_5_<replaceable>A</replaceable>_RELEASE lcdproc</userinput>
  </para>
</step>

<step>
  <para>
  Create the release tarball by running:
  </para>
  <screen>
  <userinput>
    sh autogen.sh
    ./configure
    make distcheck
  </userinput>
  </screen>
</step>

<step>
  <para>
  Test the newly created release tarball at least once. Try to build and
  install it with all drivers enabled. Better: Try to build and install with
  several library options turned on and off.
  </para>
</step>

<step>
  <para>
  Create the release notes. The release notes should be an easy to read
  summary of changes in this release. The <filename>ChangeLog</filename>
  file is not very good as release notes as it is just a chronological
  list of things that happen.
  </para>
  <para>
  The release notes should talk about:
  <itemizedlist>
    <listitem><para>Fingerprint (SHA-1) of the release tarball</para></listitem>
    <listitem><para>Known bugs</para></listitem>
    <listitem><para>New drivers</para></listitem>
    <listitem><para>Other important changes within drivers, the server core and
    clients</para></listitem>
    <listitem><para>Everything else the user has to know for upgrading his
    installed version</para></listitem>
  </itemizedlist>
  grouped by topics of interest.
  </para>
</step>

<step>
  <para>
  Upload the new release and release notes to Sourceforge.
  </para>
</step>

<step>
  <para>
  Announce the new release.
  </para>
  <para>
  Send notice about the new release to the LCDproc mailing list
  (<email>lcdproc@lists.omnipotent.net</email>) and the lcdproc-announce
  mailing list on Sourceforge (<email>lcdproc-announce@lists.sourceforge.net</email>).
  Also mention the new release on the LCDproc website download and front page.
  </para>
</step>

</procedure>

<itemizedlist id="files-with-version-numbers">
  <title>Files that need version numbers updated</title>
  <listitem><para><filename>BUGS</filename></para></listitem>
  <listitem><para><filename>ChangeLog</filename></para></listitem>
  <listitem><para><filename>configure.ac</filename></para></listitem>
  <listitem><para><filename>server/menuscreens.c</filename></para></listitem>
  <listitem><para><filename>docs/lcdproc-dev/bookinfo.docbook</filename></para></listitem>
  <listitem><para><filename>docs/lcdproc-dev/driver-api.docbook</filename></para></listitem>
  <listitem><para><filename>docs/lcdproc-dev/introduction.docbook</filename></para></listitem>
  <listitem><para><filename>docs/lcdproc-user/bookinfo.docbook</filename></para></listitem>
  <listitem><para><filename>docs/lcdproc-user/how-to-obtain.docbook</filename></para></listitem>
</itemizedlist>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="releasing-documentation">
<title>Creating a documentation release</title>

<para>
Any release of LCDproc is accompanied the the user guide and developer guide.
Here is how to create these documentation packages.
</para>

<procedure><title>Steps to create the documentation package</title>
<step>
  <para>
  Get the release tarball and extract it (or change to the CVS directory
  exported in <xref linkend="releasing-software"/> and change to <filename>docs/lcdproc-user</filename>.
  </para>
</step>
<step>
  <para>
  Create the documentation package by running:
  <userinput>xmlto -o lcdproc-0-5-<replaceable>A</replaceable>-user-html xhtml lcdproc-user.docbook</userinput>
  </para>
</step>
<step>
  <para>
  Create a tarfile of the documentation package:
  <userinput>tar -czf lcdproc-0-5-<replaceable>A</replaceable>-user-html.tar.gz
  lcdproc-0-5-<replaceable>A</replaceable>-user-html</userinput>
  </para>
</step>
<step>
  <para>
  Repeat the above steps for the developers guide, replacing <quote>-user</quote>
  with <quote>-dev</quote> where appropriate.
  </para>
</step>
<step>
  <para>
  Upload the files to the Sourceforge file release system.
  </para>
</step>
</procedure>

<para>
The online documentation consists of the user and developer guide, each
converted to a single file for viewing online.
</para>

<procedure><title>Steps to create the online documentation</title>
<step>
  <para>
  Get the release tarball and extract it (or change to the CVS directory
  exported exported in <xref linkend="releasing-software"/> and change to <filename>docs/lcdproc-user</filename>.
  </para>
</step>
<step>
  <para>
  Create the documentation file by running:
  <userinput>xmlto xhtml-nochunks lcdproc-user.docbook</userinput>
  </para>
</step>
<step>
  <para>
  Rename the file: <userinput>mv lcdproc-user.html lcdproc-0-5-<replaceable>A</replaceable>-user.html</userinput>
  </para>
</step>
<step>
  <para>
  Repeat the above steps for the developers guide, replacing <quote>-user</quote>
  with <quote>-dev</quote> where appropriate.
  </para>
</step><step>
  <para>
  Upload the files to our Sourceforge web site (not the file release system!)
  and change <filename>htdocs/docs/index.html</filename> to point to the new
  files.
  </para>
</step>
</procedure>

</sect1>

</chapter>
