<chapter id="configuration">
<title>LCDproc Configuration</title>

<sect1 id="configure-lcdd">
<title>Configure LCDd</title>

<para>
As mentioned in the <link linkend="introduction">introduction</link>
<application>LCDd</application>, the LCDproc server, has its own configuration file,
which is usually <filename>/etc/LCDd.conf</filename>.
</para>

<note>
<para>
If you have not installed <package>LCDproc</package> from the sources the configuration
file might have a different location. You should be able to find it by making
your system's package manager list all the files in the <package>LCDproc</package> package.
</para>
</note>

<para>
The format of the <filename>/etc/LCDd.conf</filename> is INI-file like.
</para>

<para>
It is divided into sections that start at declarations that look like
<code>[<replaceable>section</replaceable>]</code>; i.e. an opening square bracket, followed
by the section name, and terminated by a closing square bracket, on a line by itself.
Section names are case insensitive.
</para>

<para>
Parameters are grouped into sections and have the form
<code><replaceable>key</replaceable>=<replaceable>value</replaceable></code>;
i.e. a key, also known as the configuration option, followed by an equality sign and
finally the value for the option.
All three elements must occur together on one line.
The <replaceable>key</replaceable>, which is case insensitive, may be surrounded by spaces,
but is must be one word (i.e. a sequence of non-space characters) not containing the equality sign.
A similar rule applies to the <replaceable>value</replaceable>: it may be surrounded by spaces,
but it must be either one word or enclosed within double quotes (<literal>"</literal>),
which are not considered as part of <replaceable>value</replaceable>.
When quoted, the following character sequences are evaluated as in literal C strings:
<informaltable>
<tgroup cols="2">
  <thead>
    <row>
      <entry>escape sequence</entry>
      <entry>character</entry>
    </row>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <row>
      <entry><literal>\a</literal></entry>
      <entry>alert (bell) character</entry>
    </row>
    <row>
      <entry><literal>\b</literal></entry>
      <entry>backspace</entry>
    </row>
    <row>
      <entry><literal>\f</literal></entry>
      <entry>formfeed</entry>
    </row>
    <row>
      <entry><literal>\n</literal></entry>
      <entry>newline</entry>
    </row>
    <row>
      <entry><literal>\r</literal></entry>
      <entry>carriage return</entry>
    </row>
    <row>
      <entry><literal>\t</literal></entry>
      <entry>horizontal tab</entry>
    </row>
    <row>
      <entry><literal>\v</literal></entry>
      <entry>vertical tab</entry>
    </row>
    <row>
      <entry><literal>\\</literal></entry>
      <entry>backslash</entry>
    </row>
  </tbody>
</tgroup>
</informaltable>
All other occurrences of <literal>\</literal> within quoted values will be ignored.
</para>

<para>
Comments are all line-based, and may start with '<literal>#</literal>' or '<literal>;</literal>'.
Everything including and behind the character starting the comment up to the end
of the line is ignored.
</para>

<para>
The server has a 'central' section named <code>[Server]</code>.
Further each driver has a section which defines how the driver acts.
Those sections start with <code>[<replaceable>drivername</replaceable>]</code>.
</para>

<para>
<anchor id="which-driver" />The drivers are activated by specifying them in a <code>Driver=</code>
line in the server section, like:
</para>

<example id="configure-lcdd.example">
<title><filename>LCDd.conf</filename>: Specify which driver to use</title>
<programlisting>
[Server]
Driver=curses
</programlisting>
<para>
This tells <application>LCDd</application> to use the <literal>curses</literal> driver.
</para>
</example>

<para>
The drivers read their own options from the config file.
For this purpose they use the config sections that are named like the driver.
</para>

<sect2 id="server-section">
<title id="server-section.title"><filename>LCDd.conf</filename>: The <code>[Server]</code> Section</title>

<para>
The <code>[Server]</code> section of the <filename>LCDd.conf</filename> contains the
settings for the LCDproc server <application>LCDd</application>.
</para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
  <term>
    <property>DriverPath</property> =
    <parameter><replaceable>DRIVERPATH</replaceable></parameter>
  </term>
  <listitem><para>
    Tells the server where to look for the driver files.
    See <link linkend="which-driver">above</link> for details.
    If not specified <replaceable>DRIVERPATH</replaceable>
    defaults to the empty string, resulting in drivers being
    searched
    in the directory <application>LCDd</application> is started in.
  </para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
  <term>
    <property>Driver</property> =
    <parameter><replaceable>DRIVERNAME</replaceable></parameter>
  </term>
  <listitem>
    <para>
      Tells the server which driver(s) to use.
      The first driver specified here that is capable of output functionality
      will be used as the <emphasis>master</emphasis> output driver, defining
      display properties and capabilities.
      All other drivers specified can only serve as input drivers
      or slave output drivers.
      If not specified <replaceable>DRIVERNAME</replaceable>
      defaults to <literal>curses</literal>, a driver that is supposed
      to work on any half-way decent UNIX console.
    </para>
    <para>
      This setting can be overridden on <application>LCDd</application>'s
      command line using the <option>-d <replaceable>DRIVER</replaceable></option> option.
      When the command line option is used, only the one driver given there
      will be loaded, and all drivers specified in the configuration file are ignored.
    </para>
  </listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
  <term>
    <property>Bind</property> =
    <parameter><replaceable>ADDRESS</replaceable></parameter>
  </term>
  <listitem>
    <para>
      Tells the server to bind to the given local IP address and listen for incoming client connections.
      The default value for <replaceable>ADDRESS</replaceable> is <literal>127.0.0.1</literal>, which
      is actually the safest variant, as it allows connections only from the local machine and forbids
      connections from remote systems.
    </para>
    <para>
      This setting can be overridden on <application>LCDd</application>'s
      command line using the <option>-a <replaceable>ADDRESS</replaceable></option> option.
    </para>
  </listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
  <term>
    <property>Port</property> =
    <parameter><replaceable>PORTNUMBER</replaceable></parameter>
  </term>
  <listitem>
    <para>
      Tells the server to listen to this specified port.
      If not specified <replaceable>PORTNUMBER</replaceable> defaults to <literal>13666</literal>.
    </para>
    <para>
      This setting can be overridden on <application>LCDd</application>'s
      command line using the <option>-p <replaceable>PORTNUMBER</replaceable></option> option.
    </para>
  </listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
  <term>
    <property>ReportLevel</property> =
    <parameter><replaceable>LEVEL</replaceable></parameter>
  </term>
  <listitem>
    <para>
      Sets the reporting level.
      Legal values for <replaceable>LEVEL</replaceable> range from <literal>0</literal>
      (only critical errors) to <literal>5</literal> (everything including debugging information).
      If not specified it defaults to <literal>2</literal> (warnings and errors only).
    </para>
    <para>
      This setting can be overridden on <application>LCDd</application>'s
      command line using the <option>-r <replaceable>LEVEL</replaceable></option> option.
    </para>
  </listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
  <term>
    <property>ReportToSyslog</property> = &parameters.yesnodef;
  </term>
  <listitem>
    <para>
      Should we report to <filename>syslog</filename> (<literal>yes</literal>)
      instead of <filename>stderr</filename> (<literal>no</literal>)?
      Default value is <literal>no</literal>.
    </para>
    <para>
      This setting can be overridden on <application>LCDd</application>'s
      command line using the <option>-s <replaceable>NUMBER</replaceable></option> option.
      Passing <option>-s 1</option> on the command line enables reporting to <filename>syslog</filename>
      while <option>-s 0</option> disables it.
    </para>
    <warning>
      <para>
        If <application>LCDd</application> is started automatically by an init script
        using the <literal>curses</literal> driver, it will lock <filename>/dev/tty1</filename>!
        So, be careful about what you are doing here.
      </para>
    </warning>

  </listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
  <term>
    <property>User</property> =
    <parameter><replaceable>USER</replaceable></parameter>
  </term>
  <listitem>
    <para>
    User to run as. When started as root <application>LCDd</application> will drop its privileges,
    and run as <replaceable>USER</replaceable> instead. Defaults to <literal>nobody</literal>.
    </para>
    <para>
      This setting can be overridden on <application>LCDd</application>'s
      command line using the <option>-u <replaceable>USER</replaceable></option> option.
    </para>
  </listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
  <term>
    <property>Foreground</property> = &parameters.yesnodef;
  </term>
  <listitem>
    <para>
      The server will stay in the foreground if set to true.
      Otherwise the server will fork to background and report
      to syslog. Defaults to <literal>no</literal>.
    </para>
    <para>
      This setting can be overridden on <application>LCDd</application>'s
      command line with the <option>-f</option> option that forces foreground mode.
    </para>
  </listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
  <term>
    <property>Hello</property> =
    <parameter><replaceable>HELLOMSG</replaceable></parameter>
  </term>
  <listitem>
    <para>
      Define the startup message printed on the screen when LCDd starts.
      This message will stay on the screen until the first client connects.
      If not given, it defaults to the built-in server screen that tells
      how many clients are connected and how many screens these clients
      are using in total.
      If it is given, each <code>Hello=</code> directive represents
      a line on the display.
    </para>
    <para>
      The <replaceable>HELLOMSG</replaceable>s will be printed on
      the display one after each other starting on the beginning of each line.
      So, the definition of
      <programlisting>
        Hello="   Welcome to"
	Hello="    LCDproc!"
      </programlisting>
      prints a nice 2-line welcome message to the display.
    </para>
    <para>
      To simply disable the default built-in server screen on startup,
      and start with a blank screen a single <code>Hello=""</code> is sufficient.
    </para>
  </listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
  <term>
    <property>GoodBye</property> =
    <parameter><replaceable>GOODBYEMSG</replaceable></parameter>
  </term>
  <listitem>
    <para>
      Define the message left on the screen when LCDd exits.
      If not given, it defaults to the built-in
      <literal>Thanks for using LCDproc!</literal>.
      If it is given, each <code>GoodBye=</code> directive represents
      a line on the display.
    </para>
    <para>
      The <replaceable>GOODBYEMSG</replaceable>s will be printed on
      the display one after each other starting on the beginning of each line.
      So, the definition of
      <programlisting>
        GoodBye="       So Long,"
        GoodBye="         and"
        GoodBye="Thanks for All the Fish!"
      </programlisting>
      prints the well known dolphin's message on the first 3 lines
      of the display (which obviously needs to be 24 columns wide
      to show the full last line).
    </para>
    <para>
      To simply disable the default built-in message, and leave the screen blank
      a single <code>GoodBye=""</code> suffices.
    </para>
  </listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
  <term>
    <property>WaitTime</property> =
    <parameter><replaceable>SECONDS</replaceable></parameter>
  </term>
  <listitem>
    <para>
      Sets the default time in seconds to display a screen.
      If not specified the default value for <replaceable>SECONDS</replaceable> is <literal>4</literal>.
    </para>
    <para>
      This setting can be overridden on <application>LCDd</application>'s
      command line with the <option>-w <replaceable>SECONDS</replaceable></option> option.
    </para>
  </listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
  <term>
    <property>AutoRotate</property> = &parameters.yesdefno;
  </term>
  <listitem>
    <para>
      If set to <literal>no</literal>, LCDd will start with screen rotation disabled.
      This has the same effect as if the ToggleRotateKey had been pressed.
      Rotation will start if the ToggleRotateKey is pressed.
    </para>
    <note>
      <para>
        This setting does not turn off priority sorting of screens. Therefore
        the client or LCDd may still show a different screen if it assigns it
        a higher priority than any other screen. Due to the way priority
        sorting works the screen shown when the first client connects may not
        be that clients first screen. If the client sets up more than two
        screens it will be the next to last one (this is not considered a bug).
      </para>
    </note>
  </listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
  <term>
    <property>ServerScreen</property> =
    {
      <emphasis><parameter><literal>yes</literal></parameter></emphasis> |
      <parameter><literal>no</literal></parameter> |
      <parameter><literal>blank</literal></parameter>
    }
  </term>
  <listitem>
    <para>
      Control the behaviour of the server screen, that usually shows the number
      of active clients and screens.
      When set to its default value <literal>yes</literal>, the server screen
      is included into the screen rotation scheme when other screens exist.
      Whet set to <literal>no</literal>, the server screen only shows up
      when no other screen exists.
      The special value <literal>blank</literal> is similar to <literal>no</literal>,
      but instead of displaying the current number of clients and screens,
      only a blank screen is displayed.
    </para>
    <para>
      This setting can be partially overridden on <application>LCDd</application>'s
      command line using the <option>-i <replaceable>NUMBER</replaceable></option> option.
      Passing <option>-i 1</option> on the command line enables server screen rotation,
      while <option>-i 0</option> disables it.
      <note>
        <para>
          Using the command line, it is not possible to set the server screen to
          <literal>blank</literal> mode.
	</para>
      </note>
    </para>
  </listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
  <term>
    <property>Backlight</property> =
    {
      <parameter><literal>off</literal></parameter> |
      <emphasis><parameter><literal>open</literal></parameter></emphasis> |
      <parameter><literal>on</literal></parameter>
    }
  </term>
  <listitem><para>
    Set the master backlight setting.
    If set to the default value <literal>open</literal>, then the backlight setting
    of the display can be influenced by the clients.
    When set to <literal>off</literal> or <literal>on</literal>, the backlight
    is set to the appropriate value without the clients being able to change
    the value.
  </para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
  <term>
    <property>Heartbeat</property> =
    {
      <parameter><literal>off</literal></parameter> |
      <emphasis><parameter><literal>open</literal></parameter></emphasis> |
      <parameter><literal>on</literal></parameter>
    }
  </term>
  <listitem><para>
    Set the master heartbeat, the oscillating icon in the top right corner
    of the display, setting.
    If set to the default value <literal>open</literal>, then the heartbeat setting
    of the display can be influenced by the clients.
    When set to <literal>off</literal> or <literal>on</literal>, the heartbeat
    is turned on or off without the clients being able to change the value.
  </para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
  <term>
    <property>TitleSpeed</property> =
    <parameter><replaceable>SPEED</replaceable></parameter>
  </term>
  <listitem><para>
    Set the speed how fast over-long title lines shall scroll.
    Legal values are <literal>0</literal> to <literal>10</literal>,
    where <literal>0</literal> means that no scrolling takes place
    and <literal>10</literal> stands for fastest scrolling.
    Default is <literal>10</literal>, where no artificial delay is inserted.
  </para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>


<para>
The <command>&hellip;Key</command> lines define what the server does with keypresses that
don't go to any client.
</para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
  <term>
    <property>ToggleRotateKey</property> =
    <parameter><replaceable>KEY</replaceable></parameter>
  </term>
  <listitem><para>
    Defaults to <literal>Enter</literal>.
  </para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
  <term>
    <property>PrevScreenKey</property> =
    <parameter><replaceable>KEY</replaceable></parameter>
  </term>
  <listitem><para>
    Defaults to <literal>Left</literal>.
  </para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
  <term>
    <property>NextScreenKey</property> =
    <parameter><replaceable>KEY</replaceable></parameter>
  </term>
  <listitem><para>
    Defaults to <literal>Right</literal>.
  </para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
  <term>
    <property>ScrollUpKey</property> =
    <parameter><replaceable>KEY</replaceable></parameter>
  </term>
  <listitem><para>
    Defaults to <literal>Up</literal>.
  </para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
  <term>
    <property>ScrollDownKey</property> =
    <parameter><replaceable>KEY</replaceable></parameter>
  </term>
  <listitem><para>
    Defaults to <literal>Down</literal>.
  </para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="menu-section">
<title id="menu-section.title"><filename>LCDd.conf</filename>: The <code>[Menu]</code> Section</title>

<para>
The <code>[Menu]</code> section enables you to set some general ("global")
options related to the way <application>LCDd</application> handles
input "events".
</para>

<para>
The menu is a special LCDproc client built into <application>LCDd</application>
that allows changing server and display settings as well as extending it
with entries from client applications.
</para>

<para>
You can configure what keys the menu should use.
</para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
  <term>
    <property>MenuKey</property> =
    <parameter><replaceable>KEY</replaceable></parameter>
  </term>
  <listitem>
    <para>
      The key that switches into menu mode (=open the main menu).
      In menu mode it cancels any operation. Cancelling the main menu
      means returning to the regular display mode.
      It has no default, but a natural candidate is <literal>Menu</literal>.
    </para>
    <note><para>
      The <literal>MenuKey</literal> will be reserved exclusively,
      while the others work in shared mode and can thus be used by a
      client application when not in the menu.
    </para></note>
  </listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
  <term>
    <property>EnterKey</property> =
    <parameter><replaceable>KEY</replaceable></parameter>
  </term>
  <listitem><para>
    The key to enter a sub menu, to select an entry and/or
    to confirm the value of an input field.
    If the <replaceable>RightKey</replaceable> is not defined,
    it is also used to move right in input fields.
    In this case the value of the input field is not confirmed,
    until the right end of the input has been reached.

    It is not set by default, but a natural candidate is <literal>Enter</literal>.
  </para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
  <term>
    <property>UpKey</property> =
    <parameter><replaceable>KEY</replaceable></parameter>
  </term>
  <listitem><para>
    The key to move to the previous item in a menu and/or to select
    the previous value in input fields (e.g. the previous character
    available for the current position).
    If the <replaceable>DownKey</replaceable> is not set, moving up
    before the first entry automatically wraps around to the last entry.
    It is not set by default, but a natural candidate is <literal>Up</literal>.
  </para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
  <term>
    <property>DownKey</property> =
    <parameter><replaceable>KEY</replaceable></parameter>
  </term>
  <listitem><para>
    The key to move to the next item in a menu and/or to select
    the next value in input fields (e.g. the next character available
    for the current position).
    If the <replaceable>UpKey</replaceable> is not set, moving down
    below the last entry automatically wraps around to the first entry.
    It has no default, but a natural candidate is <literal>Down</literal>.
  </para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
  <term>
    <property>LeftKey</property> =
    <parameter><replaceable>KEY</replaceable></parameter>
  </term>
  <listitem><para>
    If defined, this optional key is used to
    to move left in input fields and to select submenu entries.
    It is not set by default, but if you have more than 4 keys,
    a natural candidate is <literal>Left</literal>.
  </para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
  <term>
    <property>RightKey</property> =
    <parameter><replaceable>KEY</replaceable></parameter>
  </term>
  <listitem><para>
    If defined, this optional key is used to to move right in input fields.
    It is not set by default, but if you have more than 4 keys,
    a natural candidate is <literal>Right</literal>.
  </para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

<para>
The minimal keys required for the menu work correctly are the <command>MenuKey</command>,
the <command>EnterKey</command> and one of <command>UpKey</command> or
<command>DownKey</command>.
With these 3 keys the menus can be operated.
Of course with only 3 keys the navigation gets a bit awkward.
So if you have 4 or more keys, you better use them.
Especially the <command>LeftKey</command> and <command>RightKey</command>
make a big difference in user experience.
</para>


</sect2>


<sect2 id="driver-section">
<title><filename>LCDd.conf</filename>: The Driver Section</title>

<para>
As mentioned earlier, each driver has its own section in the
<filename>LCDd.conf</filename>.
</para>

<para>
Although the settings are more or less self-explanatory,
they are explained in the next chapter in the section for each driver.
So, read through the section of your driver and change
everything necessary.
</para>

</sect2>

</sect1>


<sect1 id="init-scripts">
<title>The LCDproc Init Scripts</title>

<para>
The <package>LCDproc</package> distribution contains init scripts for
<acronym>LSB</acronym> 3.1 (Linux Standard Base 3.1) conforming
GNU/Linux distributions.
In addition to those it contains init scripts for older RedHat- and Debian-based
distributions that do not adhere to LSB 3.1.
You can find all of them in the <filename>scripts/</filename>
directory of the LCDproc sources.
</para>

<note>
<para>
The init scripts are generated using autoconf. So, again it is important that
you have run <command>./configure</command> with the correct options for your
system.
</para>
</note>

<para>
Refer to your system's manual on how to install the scripts.
</para>

<sect2 id="init-lcdd">
<title>init-LCDd</title>
<para>
The file <filename>scripts/init-LCDd.*</filename> is the init script for the
LCDproc server <application>LCDd</application>. It does not require modification.
</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="init-lcdproc">
<title>init-lcdproc</title>
<para>
The file <filename>scripts/init-lcdproc.*</filename> is the init script for the
LCDproc "main" client <application>lcdproc</application>.
</para>

<note>
<para>
You can retrieve a listing of all options of lcdproc running <command>lcdproc --help</command>.
</para>
</note>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="init-lcdexec">
<title>init-lcdexec</title>
<para>
The file <filename>scripts/init-lcdexec.*</filename> is the init script for the
LCDproc <application>lcdexec</application> client, which can execute predefined
commands via the menu feature.
</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="init-lcdvc">
<title>init-lcdvc</title>
<para>
The file <filename>scripts/init-lcdvc.*</filename> is the init script for the
LCDproc <application>lcdvc</application> client, a simple terminal.
</para>
</sect2>

</sect1>


</chapter>
