<chapter id="contact">
<title>Contact Us</title>

<sect1 id="errata">
<title>Errata</title>

<para>
Of course LCDproc is not perfect (yet). We do our very best
to improve it, but in some cases we are very much restricted
in our efforts.
</para>

<para>
The main reason for that is the fact that we do <emphasis>not</emphasis>
have all the hardware people have written drivers for.
Unfortunately some developers have kind of vanished and don't react to mails
from the mailing list any more.
</para>

<para>
So, as far as drivers are concerned we rely on <emphasis>you</emphasis> as testers.
We have developed elaborate "coding in the dark" skills over the
time. E.g. the CFontz driver has been updated and ported to 0.4.3
without the developers having the hardware.
</para>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="mailing-list">
<title>The LCDproc Mailing List</title>

<para>
We are a bit lazy about the bug-tracking and whatever stuff on SourceForge.
So, please contact us directly through the mailing list.
</para>

<para>
For details on how to subscribe to the list see
<ulink url="http://lcdproc.omnipotent.net/mail.php3">http://lcdproc.omnipotent.net/mail.php3</ulink>.
</para>

<para>
We like people to subscribe to the list with their real names.
Of course we cannot and do not want to force you to do so.
Anyway, we need to know your name, if you want to contribute code
to LCDproc (legal issues of copyrights).
</para>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="reporting-bugs">
<title>Reporting Bugs</title>

<para>
Possibly you will find a bug in the LCDproc distribution.
Before reporting this to the mailing list, please respect the following:
</para>

<itemizedlist>
  <listitem><para>
    Your system should be more or less up to date. This does not mean
    that you have to update from GNU/Linux kernel 2.2.x to 2.4.x or from 2.4.x to
    2.6.x. But we would like to make sure that your problem is not related to a
    known bug in the kernel or maybe your compiler.
  </para></listitem>
  <listitem><para>
    Especially LCDd might need certain privileges to access a device.
    Make sure LCDd <emphasis>has</emphasis> the required rights to do so.
  </para></listitem>
  <listitem><para>
    When experiencing problems with LCDd, make sure that your hardware is OK.
    E.g. you should make sure that the wiring for your (in this case most
    likely parallel) device is correct.
  </para></listitem>
  <listitem><para>
    Make sure that you use the correct speed settings for your device.
    Incorrect speed settings (baud rate) are most likely to produce garbage
    scrolling on your display.
    Refer to the specifications of your device. If your device needs a speed
    setting that is not supported by LCDd send us a mail.
  </para></listitem>
  <listitem><para>
    Make sure that you have modified the configuration file according
    to your needs and that LCDd actually uses the configuration file.
    I.e. you might have to run LCDd with the <code>-c</code>
    <link linkend="lcdd-commandline-options">option</link>
</para></listitem>
</itemizedlist>

<para>
Anyway, no question is too stupid to ask ;) Feel free to ask whatever you want.
Unfortunately replying to mails takes time as well (a damn lot of time). So, if
you want LCDproc to develop faster, please try to solve a problem yourself first.
</para>

<para>
BUT if you have actually FOUND A BUG we will be quite happy if you let us know.
We NEED YOU as testers and appreciate any feedback.
</para>

</sect1>


</chapter>
