<chapter id="how-to-obtain">
<title>How to Obtain LCDproc</title>

<sect1 id="versioning">
<title>Versioning</title>

<para>
At the time of writing there were four versions of LCDproc floating around on the
Internet.
</para>

<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term>LCDproc 0.4.1</term>
<listitem>
<para>
LCDproc 0.4.1 was the last "stable" release of LCDproc. It still uses the old
command line configuration.
</para>
<warning>
<para>
There are known security problems with LCDproc 0.4.1. A remote exploit is possible.
An attacker can make use of some buffer-overflows in the client communication
code of LCDd, in order to get root access to your system.
Therefore running LCDproc 0.4.1 is NOT RECOMMENDED!
</para>
</warning>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>LCDproc 0.4.2</term>
<listitem>
<para>
LCDproc 0.4.2 was meant to be the next stable release of LCDproc. As 0.4.1 
it uses the old command line configuration.
</para>
<note>
<para>
The known issues about 0.4.1 had been fixed. Unfortunately the guy who had the last pending
patches on his box kind of "vanished" from the LCDproc mailing list.
Of course you can get 0.4.2 from CVS. BUT its current state is unknown.
</para>
</note>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>LCDproc 0.4.3</term>
<listitem>
<para>
LCDproc 0.4.3 is the current stable release of LCDproc. It no longer uses the old
command line configuration, but introduces the configuration file <filename>/etc/LCDd.conf</filename>.
As well the driver API has slightly changed, which should not
make older drivers incompatible, but might cause some trouble. As well the way
<application>LCDd</application> reports messages (including error messages) has changed.
</para>
<note>
<para>
Even though LCDproc 0.4.3 is the most stable version we can offer, it is still not perfect.
</para>
</note>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>LCDproc 0.4.4</term>
<listitem>
<para>
LCDproc 0.4.4 will be the next stable release of LCDproc.
</para>
<note>
<para>
The 0.4.x branch will only be slightly updated. E.g. we plan better support
of lcdproc (the client) for *BSD. Yet, the active development will move to
0.5 now.
</para>
<para>
As 0.5 will not be stable in the near future, we may also work on porting drivers
from 0.4.1 to 0.4.4 on demand. We do not have all the hardware LCDd supports. So, we
only work on drivers that can be tested by YOU.
</para>
<para>
As well, the development and inclusion of new drivers is possible.
</para>
</note>
</listitem>

</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>LCDproc 0.5</term>
<listitem>
<para>
LCDproc 0.5 is the developement version of LCDproc. Everything is possible ;) Drivers can already be
loaded at runtime. We will also work on client supplied menus and other nifty stuff.
</para>
<warning>
<para>
From time to time LCDproc 0.5 might not even compile due to drastic changes.
You have been warned!
</para>
<para>
Furthermore older drivers will NOT work with LCDproc 0.5 AT ALL!
Feel free to port a driver that has not been ported to 0.5 yet ;)
</para>
</warning>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="tar">
<title>Download Last Day's CVS Version of LCDproc as a Tarball</title>

<para>
There are nightly distributions of the CVS branches of LCDproc. You can download them from
<ulink url="http://lcdproc.sourceforge.net/nightly/">http://lcdproc.sourceforge.net/nightly/</ulink>
</para>

<para>
To extract the files run either
</para>

<screen>
<prompt>$</prompt> <userinput>tar xvfz lcdproc-CVS-*.tar.gz</userinput>
</screen>

<para>
or
</para>

<screen>
<prompt>$</prompt> <userinput>bunzip2 -c lcdproc-CVS-*.tar.bz2 | tar xv</userinput>
</screen>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="cvs">
<title>Download The Latest Version of LCDproc from CVS</title>

<para>
Of course you can download the latest stuff from CVS via anonymous login.
</para>

<para>
Create a "cvs" directory somewhere on your machine (not really neccessary but useful):
</para>

<screen>
<prompt>$</prompt> <userinput>mkdir ~/cvs</userinput>
<prompt>$</prompt> <userinput>cd ~/cvs</userinput>
</screen>

<para>
Login to CVS:
</para>

<screen>
<prompt>$</prompt> <userinput>cvs -d:pserver:anonymous@cvs.lcdproc.sourceforge.net:/cvsroot/lcdproc login</userinput>
</screen>

<para>
(Hit enter when prompted for a password.)
</para>

<para>
Get the files from CVS:
</para>

<screen>
<prompt>$</prompt> <userinput>cvs -d:pserver:anonymous@cvs.lcdproc.sourceforge.net:/cvsroot/lcdproc checkout -r stable-0-4-3 lcdproc</userinput>
</screen>

<para>
Once you've done that and want to update the downloaded files to the latest stuff
you can use the "update" command of CVS (Make sure you have logged in to CVS first.):
</para>

<screen>
<prompt>$</prompt> <userinput>cvs -d:pserver:anonymous@cvs.lcdproc.sourceforge.net:/cvsroot/lcdproc update -r stable-0-4-3 lcdproc</userinput>
</screen>

<para>
Now that you have downloaded the files you can prepare them for compiling, but first
you should (you don't have to) copy them to another place on your machine:
</para>

<screen>
<prompt>$</prompt> <userinput>mkdir ~/lcdproc-cvs</userinput>
<prompt>$</prompt> <userinput>cp -f -R ~/cvs/lcdproc ~/lcdproc-cvs/`date +%Y%m%d`</userinput>
<prompt>$</prompt> <userinput>cd ~/lcdproc-cvs/`date +%Y%m%d`</userinput>
</screen>


</sect1>

<sect1 id="apt-get">
<title>apt-get</title>

<para>
Debian GNU/Linux users can get the debian package of LCDproc, which is in the unstable and testing distributions.
</para>

<para>
Provided apt-get is configured properly. You should be able to install the package running:
</para>

<screen>
<prompt>$</prompt> <userinput>su</userinput>
<prompt>Password:</prompt> <userinput>top secret</userinput>
<prompt>#</prompt> <userinput>apt-get install lcdproc</userinput>
</screen>

</sect1>

</chapter>
