<chapter id="installation">
<title>Installation</title>

<sect1 id="build-and-install">
<title>Build LCDproc</title>

<para>
Now that you have downloaded the <package>LCDproc</package> distribution you can
start building it.
</para>

<note>
<para>
If you have installed the Debian package with <application>apt-get</application>
(or another Debian package management tool), you can skip this this chapter.
</para>
</note>

<para>
If you're building this version from CVS, you'll need
<application>autoconf</application>, <application>automake</application>,
<application>aclocal</application> and <application>autoheader</application> installed.
</para>

<para>
If you have autoconf and friends, run:
</para>

<screen>
<prompt>$</prompt> <userinput>sh autogen.sh</userinput>
</screen>

<para>
This produces the configure script and supporting files.
It has already been run if you are using the tarball distribution.
</para>

<para>
Once the above command has run, the rest is pretty standard:
</para>

<screen>
<prompt>$</prompt> <userinput>./configure --help</userinput>
</screen>

<para>
Read about the options, figure out what to use.
</para>

<screen>
<prompt>$</prompt> <userinput>./configure --prefix=/usr/local --enable-drivers=curses,CFontz</userinput>
</screen>

<para>
Be sure to replace <filename>/usr/local</filename> with the prefixdir you want
(e.g. <filename>/usr</filename> for RedHat) and <code>curses,CFontz</code> with
the comma-separated list of drivers you want to have compiled.
</para>

<screen>
<prompt>$</prompt> <userinput>make</userinput>
</screen>

<para>
Congratulations: You have just compiled your version of <package>LCDproc</package> ;)
</para>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="direct-install">
<title>Install LCDproc Directly From The Sources  </title>

<para>
If you want to install LCDproc more or less permanently you
can run:
</para>

<screen>
<prompt>$</prompt> <userinput>su</userinput>
<prompt>Password:</prompt> <userinput>top secret</userinput>
<prompt>#</prompt> <userinput>make install</userinput>
</screen>

<note>
<para>
<command>make install</command> is absolutely OPTIONAL
You can also run LCDproc directly from the source directory. See
<link linkend="lcdd-commandline">below</link> for details.
</para>
</note>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="package-install">
<title>Generate And Install Packages of LCDproc</title>

<para>
As an alternative (which is actually better ;) to installing
directly from the sources you can generate packages using the
packaging tool EPM.
</para>

<para>
First of all you may need to download EPM from
<ulink url="http://www.epmhome.org/">http://www.epmhome.org/</ulink>
and install it according to the instructions that are included
in its source distribution.
</para>
<para>
Debian users (who do not want to download the official lcdproc debs via apt-get)
can of course use Debian's epm package:
</para>

<screen>
<prompt>#</prompt> <userinput>apt-get install epm</userinput>
</screen>

<note>
<para>
There are of course other and maybe better ways to generate
packages for your system. The reason for us to choose EPM
was that it provide the developers with a tool that makes it
possible to write one list file for all platforms defining
what the resulting package is meant to look like. This way we
do not have to learn all the package managing tools of the
different platforms that are supported by LCDproc.
</para>
</note>

<para>
To generate an LCDproc package follow these instructions:
</para>

<tip>
<para>
It is of certain importance that you have run ./configure with
the correct pathname settings for your system. Otherwise the
resulting package will install the files in the wrong directories.
</para>
</tip>

<screen>
<prompt>$</prompt> <userinput>epm -v -f native LCDproc</userinput>
</screen>

<note>
<para>
Generating an RPM package as a non-root user will fail, RPM wants
to generate the files from the tree under <filename>/usr/src/RPM</filename>,
which you do not have write access to as a non-root user.
If you want to generate the package as a non-root user anyway, you may
want to follow these instructions.
</para>
</note>

<para>
A workaround for the described problem is creating a file named
<filename>~/.rpmmacros</filename>
which contains:
</para>

<screen>
<![CDATA[
%_topdir ~/rpm
]]>
</screen>

<important>
<para>
<filename>~/rpm</filename> must contain the same tree usually found under
<filename>/usr/src/RPM</filename>
</para>
</important>

<para>
Unfortunately epm does not read <filename>~/.rpmmacros</filename>
and of course returns warnings.
Don't worry! That's OK ;)
</para>

<para>
In order to actually install the generated package follow the instructions
in your system's manual.
</para>

</sect1>


</chapter>
