<chapter id="running">
<title>Running LCDproc</title>

<sect1 id="running-lcdd">
<title>Running LCDd</title>

<para>
If you have installed the init-scripts you can simply start, stop
and restart LCDd with the init-script.
</para>

<sect2 id="lcdd-commandline">
<title>Running LCDd from the command line</title>

<para>
There are several reasons for running LCDd from the command line
</para>

<itemizedlist>
<listitem><para>You don't want to install LCDd but run it from the source directory.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>You want to do some debugging.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>You want to get the output directly on stderr.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>...</para></listitem>
</itemizedlist>

<note>
<para>
If you run LCDd as a "normal" user, it will not change to the user
specified in the config file.
For some devices, mostly parallel port devices but also some USB devices,
you will need root privileges anyway ;)
</para>
</note>

<para>
The simplest command that will run LCDd is the following. It is useful for
running LCDd from the source directory, e.g. after building.
</para>

<screen>
<prompt>$</prompt> <userinput>server/LCDd -c LCDd.conf</userinput>
</screen>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="lcdd-commandline-options">
<title>The Command Line Options of LCDd</title>

<para>
Running <command>LCDd -h</command> gives you an overview of the currently available
command line options.
</para>

<example id="lcdd-commandline-options.example">
<title><command>LCDd -h</command></title>
<screen> <![CDATA[

LCDd - LCDproc Server Daemon, 0.5dev

Copyright (c) 1999-2006 Selene Scriven, William Ferrell, and misc. contributors.
This program is released under the terms of the GNU General Public License.

Usage: LCDd [<options>]
  where <options> are:
    -h                  Display this help screen
    -c <config>         Use a configuration file other than /etc/lcdproc/LCDd.conf
    -d <driver>         Add a driver to use (overrides drivers in config file) [curses]
    -f                  Run in the foreground
    -a <addr>           Network (IP) address to bind to [127.0.0.1]
    -p <port>           Network port to listen for connections on [13666]
    -u <user>           User to run as [nobody]
    -w <waittime>       Time to pause at each screen (in seconds) [4]
    -s <bool>           If set, reporting will be done using syslog
    -r <level>          Report level [2]
    -i <bool>           Whether to rotate the server info screen

]]>
</screen>
</example>

</sect2>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="running-lcdproc">
<title>Running lcdproc</title>

<para>
You will probably more often run <command>lcdproc</command> from the command line than
you will run LCDd.
</para>

<sect2 id="lcdproc-commandline-options">
<title>The Command Line Options of lcdproc</title>

<para>
Running <command>lcdproc -h</command> gives you an overview of the currently available
command line options.
</para>

<example id="lcdproc-commandline-optionsi.example">
<title><command>lcdproc -h</command></title>
<screen> <![CDATA[

lcdproc - LCDproc system status information viewer

Copyright (c) 1999-2006 Selene Scriven, William Ferrell, and misc. contributors.
This program is released under the terms of the GNU General Public License.

Usage: lcdproc [<options>] [<screens> ...]
  where <options> are
    -s <host>           connect to LCDd daemon on <host>
    -p <port>           connect to LCDd daemon using <port>
    -f                  run in foreground
    -e <delay>          slow down initial announcement of screens (in 1/100s)
    -c <config>         use a configuration file other than /etc/lcdproc/lcdproc.conf
    -h                  show this help screen
    -v                  display program version
  and <screens> are
    C CPU               detailed CPU usage
    P SMP-CPU           CPU usage overview (one line per CPU)
    G CPUGraph          CPU usage histogram
    L Load              load histogram
    M Memory            memory & swap usage
    S ProcSize          biggest processes size
    D Disk              filling level of mounted file systems
    I Iface             network interface usage
    B Battery           battery status
    T TimeDate          time & date information
    O OldTime           old time screen
    U Uptime            uptime screen
    K BigClock          big clock
    N MiniClock         minimal clock
    A About             credits page

Example:
    lcdproc -s my.lcdproc.server.com -p 13666 C M X

]]>
</screen>
</example>

<note>
<para>
You will not be able to connect to a remote server, unless it listens to
the correct interface and port! See <link linkend="server-section">
<filename>LCDd.conf</filename>: The [server] Section</link>
for details on the server setup.
</para>
</note>

</sect2>

</sect1>


</chapter>
