.TH LCDd 1 "1-aug-01" "LCDproc"
.SH NAME
LCDd - LCDproc server daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B LCDd
[\-\-help] 
[\-\-type <\fIsize\fP>] 
[\-\-driver <\fIdriver\fP> [\fIargs\fP] ]
[\-\-foreground \fI\fP] 
[\-\-backlight <\fImode\fP>] 
[\-\-serverinfo off] 
.SH DESCRIPTION
LCDd is the server portion of LCDproc which listens to a certain port (normally 13666) and displays information on an LCD display.  It works with several types
and sizes of displays.
.SH OPTIONS
.I LCDd
Available options are:
.TP 8
.B \-h, \-\-help
Display this help screen
.TP 8
.B \-t, \-\-type <size>
select an LCD size (20x4, 16x2, etc...)
.TP 8
.B \-d, \-\-driver <\fIdriver\fP> [\fIargs\fP] 
Add a driver to use:
.RS
CFontz, curses, HD44780, irmanin, joy, MtxOrb, LB216, text
.PP
(args will be passed to the driver for init)
.RE
.TP 8
.B \-f, \-\-foreground
Run in the foreground (no daemon)
.TP 8
.B \-b, \-\--backlight <mode>
Set backlight mode (on, off, open)
.TP 8
.B \-i, \-\-serverinfo off
Set the server screen to low priority
.PP
Help on each driver's parameters are obtained upon request:
"LCDd -d driver --help"
.SH EXAMPLES
LCDd -d MtxOrb "--device /dev/lcd --contrast 200" -d joy
.SH AUTHOR
LCDproc was written by William Ferrell (choadster@earthlink.net) and Scott Scriven (scriven@cs.colostate.edu).

The newest version of LCDproc should be available from here:

                http://lcdproc.omnipotent.net/
.SH LEGAL STUFF
LCDproc is released as "WorksForMe-Ware".  In other words, it is free, kinda neat, and we don't guarantee that it will do anything in particular on any machine except the ones it was developed on.
.PP
It is technically released under the GNU GPL license (you should have received the file, "COPYING", with LCDproc) (also, look on http://www.fsf.org/ for more information), so you can distribute and use it for free -- but you must make the source code freely available to anyone who wants it.
.PP
For any sort of real legal information, read the GNU GPL (GNU General Public License).  It's worth reading.

