.TH lcdexec 1 "24 March 2011" LCDproc "LCDproc suite"
.SH NAME
lcdexec - LCDproc client to execute commands from the LCDd menu
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lcdexec
[\fB\-hf\fP]
[\fB\-c\fP \fIconfig\fP]
[\fB\-a\fP \fIaddr\fP]
[\fB\-p\fP \fIport\fP]
[\fB\-r\fP \fIlevel\fP]
[\fB\-s\fP \fIbool\fP]

.SH DESCRIPTION
lcdexec connects to LCDd (the LCDproc server) and adds a submenu to the LCDd main menu
that allows the user to select commands to be executed.
You can access the menu by pressing the menu key configured for LCDd.

.SH OPTIONS
.I lcdexec
understands the following command line options., that override the
corresponding options given in the configuration file:
.TP 8
.B \-c \fIfilename\fP
Set the name of the config file to read, /etc/lcdexec.conf by default
.TP 8
.B \-a \fIaddress\fP
Set the address of the host which LCDd is running on, localhost by default
.TP 8
.B \-p \fIport\fP
Set the port which LCDd is accepting connections on, 13666 by default
.TP 8
.B \-f
Run in foreground.
.TP 8
.B \-r \fIlevel\fP
Set the reporting level to \fIlevel\fP, which is an integer
representing the reporting levels from 0 (critical errors only) to 5 (debug messages).
Default is 2 (errors and warnings only)
.TP 8
.B \-s \fIbool\fP
Report to syslog (1) or to stdout (0, default)
.PP

.SH USAGE
In addition to the command line options listed above lcdexec also takes options from
a configuration file.
.PP
This file is expected to have a "INI-file" like format with sections introduced by
section headers in square brackets and options lines consisting of key=value pairs.
.PP
Section and option names may contain only characters from the range [a-zA-Z0-9_],
while value strings may contain any printable character.
Value strings with characters outside the range [a-zA-Z0-9_] must be quoted with double quotes.
To get a double quote or backslashes in the string, they must be escaped by preceding it by a backslash.
.PP

The lcdexec configuration file needs at least two sections:
.TP 8
.B [lcdexec]
for the general options
.TP 8
.B [MainMenu]
for the top level of the menu hierarchy to be displayed.
.PP

The \fB[lcdexec]\fP section supports the following options:
.TP 8
.B Address=\fIserver\fP
The host name or IP address of the LCDd server to connect to.
If not given, \fIserver\fP defaults to localhost.
.TP 8
.B Port=\fIport\fP
Port of the server to connect to.
The default value for \fIport\fP is 13666, the LCDproc port.
.TP 8
.B ReportLevel=\fIlevel\fP
Set the reporting level to \fIlevel\fP, which is an integer
representing the reporting levels from 0 (critical errors only) to 5 (debug messages).
Default is 2 (errors and warnings only)
.TP 8
.B ReportToSyslog=\fIbool\fP
Tell whether to report to syslog (TRUE) or to stderr (FALSE).
.TP 8
.B Foreground=\fIbool\fP
Tell whether to run in foreground (TRUE) or in background (FALSE).
If not given, the default is FALSE for daemon mode.
.TP 8
.B DisplayName=\fIDisplay\fP
Set the display name for the main menu.
If not given it defaults to \fBlcdexec\fP \fIHOST\fP, where \fIHOST\fP
is the hostname of the system \fIlcdexec\fP is running on.
.TP 8
.B Shell=\fI/path/to/shell\fP
Set the shell to use when executing programs.
If not given, \fBlcdexec\fP tries to read the environment variable \fISHELL\fP.
If that fails, it defaults to \fB/bin/sh\fP.
Please note that the shell given here must understand the option \fB\-c\fP
followed by the command line to execute.
.PP

The \fB[MainMenu]\fP section and the sections it refers to define the menu hierarchy
to be displayed.
Each menu and each menu entry in the menu hierarchy is defined as its own section.
Whether a given section is a sub-menu or a command entry is defined by the
option keys occurring in the section.
.PP
Menu / menu entry sections may contain the following options:
.TP 8
.B Entry=\fIentry\fP
Defines a menu entry \fIentry\fP which is further specified in the section \fB[\fP\fIentry\fP\fB]\fP.

Sections containing one or more \fBEntry=\fP options are menus.
.TP 8
.B Exec=\fIcommand\fP
Defines the system command \fIcommand\fP to be executed when this entry gets selected.

Sections containing an \fBExec=\fP option are command entries.
.TP 8
.B DisplayName=\fIname\fP
The name of the menu entry to be displayed on the LCD.
If this option is not given, the the section header name is used (without the square brackets).
.TP 8
.B Feedback=\fIbool\fP
In command entries, this option tells whether to inform the user of the completion of
commands using an alert screen on the display.
If not given, it defaults to \fBno\fB.
.PP

.SH FILES
.TP
.B lcdexec.conf

.SH EXAMPLES
In the configfile:
.PP
.DS
.ft CW
.nf
## general options for lcdexec ##
[lcdexec]
# address of the LCDd server to connect to
Address=localhost

# Port of the server to connect to
Port=13666

# set reporting level
ReportLevel=2

# report to to syslog ?
ReportToSyslog=false

# run in foreground [default: false; legal: true, false]
Foreground=false

# display name for the main menu [default: lcdexec HOST]
#DisplayName=lcdexec


# main menu definition
[MainMenu]
# the Entry=... lines (one for each menu entry) tell it is a menu definition
Entry=EjectCD
Entry=ShutdownMenu

# definition of a command
[EjectCD]
# name to display in the menu instead of the section name
DisplayName="Eject CD-ROM"
# the Exec=... line tells that it is a command
Exec="umount /cdrom; cdeject"

# definition of a menu
[ShutdownMenu]
DisplayName="Shutdown menu"
# a menu contains an Entry=... line for each menu entry
Entry=Shutdown5min
Entry=Reboot5min
Entry=CancelShutdown
Entry=ShutdownNow
Entry=RebootNow

[Shutdown5min]
DisplayName="Shutdown in 5 minutes"
Exec="shutdown \-h +5"
Feedback=yes

[Reboot5min]
DisplayName="Reboot in 5 minutes"
Exec="shutdown \-r +5"
Feedback=yes

[CanclShutdown]
DisplayName="Cancel shutdown/reboot"
Exec="shutdown \-c"
Feedback=yes

[ShutdownNow]
DisplayName="Shutdown now"
Exec="shutdown \-h now"

[RebootNow]
DisplayName="Reboot now"
Exec="shutdown \-r now"
.ft R
.fi
.DE

.PP
Start lcdexec with:
lcdexec \-c /usr/local/etc/lcdexec.conf

.PP
This will allow you to eject the CD-ROM by opening the LCDd menu, selecting "lcdexec"
and selecting "Eject CD-ROM".
Further it allows you to do various shutdowns, among others the "Shutdown in 5 minutes"
by opening the LCDd menu, selecting "lcdexec", selecting "Shutdown menu"
and selecting "Shutdown in 5 minutes".

.SH SEE ALSO
LCDd(8)

.SH AUTHOR
lcdexec is written by Joris Robijn and Peter Marschall. It is part of the LCDproc suite.

The newest version of LCDproc should be available from here:

		http://www.lcdproc.org/

.SH LEGAL STUFF
LCDproc is released as "WorksForMe-Ware".  In other words, it is free, kinda neat,
and we don't guarantee that it will do anything in particular on any machine
except the ones it was developed on.
.PP
It is technically released under the GNU GPL license (you should have received the file,
"COPYING", with LCDproc) (also, look on http://www.fsf.org/ for more information),
so you can distribute and use it for free -- but you must make the source code
freely available to anyone who wants it.
.PP
For any sort of real legal information, read the GNU GPL (GNU General Public License).
It's worth reading.
