.TH lcdproc 1 "1-aug-01" "LCDproc"

.SH NAME
lcdproc - displays system status on LCDproc server (LCDd(8))

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lcdproc
[\-s \fIserver\fP] [\-p \fIport\fP] [\-e \fIdelay\fP] [\-d] [\-h] [\-v] [\fImode\fP [\fImode\fP ...]]
.SH DESCRIPTION
lcdproc connects to the LCDproc server to display status information about the system.
.PP
Currently, only Linux, xBSD and Solaris are supported with not all features being available on all platforms.

.SH OPTIONS
.I lcdproc
understands these options:
.TP 8
.B \-s \fIserver\fP
Set the hostname which LCDproc is running on, assumed to be localhost unless otherwise set.
.TP 8
.B \-p \fIport\fP
Set the port which LCDproc is accepting connections on, assumed to be 13666 unless otherwise set.
.TP 8
.B \-d
Daemonize right after startup.
.TP 8
.B \-e \fIdelay\fP
xxx
.TP 8
.B \-h
Show help screen.
.TP 8
.B \-v
Print the version of the program and exit.
.TP 8

.B \fImode\fP
is one of the following:
.TP 16
.B C CPU
show detailed CPU usage
.TP 16
.B P SMP-CPU
CPU usage overview (one line per CPU)
.TP 16
.B G CPUGraph
CPU histogram
.TP 16
.B L Load
Load histogram
.TP 16
.B M Memory
memory & swap usage
.TP 16
.B S ProcSize
show memory usage of 5 biggest processes
.TP 16
.B D Disk
disk usage
.TP 16
.B I Iface
show network interface usage
.TP 16
.B B Battery
battery status
.TP 16
.B T TimeDate
time & date information
.TP 16
.B O OldTime
old time screen
.TP 16
.B U Uptime
old uptime screen
.TP 16
.B K BigClock
big clock
.TP 16
.B N MiniClock
essential clock
.TP 16
.B A About
credits page
.PP

.SH EXAMPLES
lcdproc C M D L 

.TP 8
connects to the LCDproc server running on the default port 13666 on the local machine and specifies the following modes:
.RS
- detailed CPU Usage
.PP
- Memory & swap usage
.PP
- Disk usage
.PP
- Load histogram
.RE
.PP

.SH SEE ALSO
.Xr LCDd 8

.SH AUTHOR
LCDproc was originally written by William Ferrell (wwf@splatwerks.org) and Scott Scriven (scriven@cs.colostate.edu).

Since that time various people have contributed to LCDproc.

The newest version of LCDproc should be available from here:

		http://www.lcdproc.org/

.SH LEGAL STUFF
LCDproc is released as "WorksForMe-Ware".  In other words, it is free, kinda neat, and we don't guarantee that it will do anything in particular on any machine except the ones it was developed on.
.PP
It is technically released under the GNU GPL license (you should have received the file, "COPYING", with LCDproc) (also, look on http://www.fsf.org/ for more information), so you can distribute and use it for free -- but you must make the source code freely available to anyone who wants it.
.PP
For any sort of real legal information, read the GNU GPL (GNU General Public License).  It's worth reading.
