<?xml version='1.0'?>
<!DOCTYPE article PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DocBook XML V4.5//EN"
                      "http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/4.5/docbookx.dtd">
<article>
<title>Pictogram Specification For LCDproc</title>
<articleinfo>
<author>
	<firstname>Markus</firstname>
	<surname>Dolze</surname>
	<email>bsdfan@nurfuerspam.de</email>
</author>
<releaseinfo>Prelimary specification</releaseinfo>
</articleinfo>

<sect1><title>Introduction</title>

<para>In addition to alphanumeric characters represented by segments or
pixels, LCD/VFD displays are often capable to show additional pictograms,
mostly arranged around the alphanumeric display part.</para>

<para>These pictograms can be switched on or off, or by changing their
appearance as seen for volume settings.</para>

<para>LCDproc comes with icons that are integrated into the alphanumeric
display part, but is unaware of pictograms as described above.</para>

<para>One current workaround is to use the output() function to pass values to
a driver that uses these values to set pictograms. The downside is that any
application which wants to make use of these pictograms need to know the
exact type of display driver used and how that drivers handles values to the
output() function.</para>

<para>This document aims to specify client language and driver API
extensions address pictograms in a manner not specific to certain drivers.
</para>

<note><para>The common term for pictograms is indeed icons, but to
distinguish the feature from LCDproc's already existing icon feature the
term <termdef>pictogram</termdef> has been chosen.</para></note>

</sect1>

<sect1><title>Client language</title>
<para>
    There are two language commands that can be called by the client:
    pictograms_get and pictogram_set.
</para>

<variablelist>
    <varlistentry>
	<term>
	    <command>pictograms_get</command>
	</term>
	<listitem>
	    <para>This command may be called by a client to get a list of
	    available pictograms. If pictograms are not support by the
	    particular version of LCDd, it will respond with an error
	    message (huh? unknown command).</para>

	    <note>
		<para>Clients should either check the version number returned as
		response to the 'hello' command or the response to
		'pictograms_get' to check if LCDd supports pictograms before
		calling 'pictogram_set' (see below).</para>
	    </note>

	    <para>
	      The response will be a string in the format:
	    </para>
	    <para>
	      <computeroutput>pictograms <replaceable>pictogram list</replaceable>...</computeroutput>
	    </para>
	    <para>
		The pictogram list will be a sequence of pictogram
		definitions separated by a space character. Each pictogram
		definition consists of up to four fields separated by a colon.

		<variablelist>
		    <varlistentry>
			<term>
			    <computeroutput><replaceable>Name</replaceable></computeroutput>
			</term>
			<listitem><para>
			    The text representation of the pictogram name.
			</para></listitem>
		    </varlistentry>
		    <varlistentry>
			<term>
			    <computeroutput><replaceable>Type</replaceable></computeroutput>
			</term>
			<listitem><para>
			    The type of the pictogram: 'n' for numerical pictograms
			    and 'b' for boolean type pictograms.
			</para></listitem>
		    </varlistentry>
		    <varlistentry>
			<term>
			    <computeroutput><replaceable>Group ID</replaceable></computeroutput>
			</term>
			<listitem>
			    <para>The Group ID is optional and if present is a number greater than zero
			    that models the driver's idea of a several pictograms that form a group. This
			    may e.g. be used for media source pictograms.</para>
			    <note>
				<para>The group ID is only informational for the client and is not used
				within LCDd. The driver however may make use of groups internally.</para>
			    </note>
			</listitem>
		    </varlistentry>
		    <varlistentry>
			<term>
			    <computeroutput><replaceable>Group type</replaceable></computeroutput>
			</term>
			<listitem><para>

			</para></listitem>
		    </varlistentry>
		</variablelist>
	    </para>

	</listitem>
    </varlistentry>
    <varlistentry>
	<term>
	    <command>pictogram_set
		<option><replaceable>pictogram</replaceable>:<replaceable>value</replaceable></option>
	    </command>
	</term>
	<listitem>
		<para>
		</para>
	</listitem>
    </varlistentry>
</variablelist>

</sect1>

<sect1><title>Driver API</title>

<para>The driver API (struct lcd_logical_driver in <filename>lcd.h</filename>)
will be extended with a new function to process pictograms:</para>

<funcsynopsis>
    <funcprototype>
	<funcdef>int <function>(*set_pictogram)</function></funcdef>
	<paramdef>unsigned int <parameter>pictogramID</parameter></paramdef>
	<paramdef>int <parameter>value</parameter></paramdef>
    </funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<para>
	The pictogram function. The first parameter will be a pictogram
	number (ID) and the second parameter will be its value. The function
	will return 0 (zero) if the pictogram is understood by the driver
	and -1 (minus one) if it is not supported.
</para>
<note>
	<para>Their will be no alternative implementation in LCDd core if a
	driver does not understand a pictogram (like it is done for icons).
	</para>

	<para>This function will never be called with multiple pictogram IDs
	combined into one. It will be called for each pictogram to be set /
	cleared. If a driver wishes to reduce communication with the
	hardware it may implement some kind of cache and write the changes
	on a call to flush().</para>
</note>
<para>
	The pictogram ID is defined in the file called <filename>
	lcd_pictograms.h</filename> as an enumerated type. It will have a
	symbolic name prefixed with <termdef>PICT_</termdef>. Drivers MUST
	NOT address pictograms by their ID number but only by their symbolic
	name (e.g. within a switch statement) as the numbers are subject to
	change.
</para>
<para>
	There will be two types of pictograms:
	<variablelist>
	    <varlistentry>
		<term>
		    Boolean type pictograms
		</term>
		<listitem><para>
		    This type of pictograms can be turned on (visible) or off (not visible).
		    Valid values are 0 (zero) which means off, or 1 (one) which means on.
		</para></listitem>
	    </varlistentry>
	    <varlistentry>
		<term>
		    Numeric type pictograms
		</term>
		<listitem><para>
		     This type of pictograms will change its appearance
		     according to the value assigned, e.g. a graph or WLAN
		     strength indicator. Valid values are within the range
		     0-1000. A value of 0 (zero) turns the pictogram off.
		</para></listitem>
	    </varlistentry>
	</variablelist>
</para>
<para>
	There will be one reserved pictogram ID (symbolic name e.g.
	PICT_ALL) which will be of boolean type and means that all
	pictograms the driver supports shall be turned off or on.
</para>

<note>
	<para>There are currently several options discussed on the mailing
	list, given here for reference:</para>
	<itemizedlist>
		<listitem><para>
		    There may be a third level for boolean type pictograms
		    which does highlight it (e.g. make it more brighter or
		    use a different color).
		</para></listitem>
		<listitem><para>
		    Values for numeric type may be negative. This allows
		    pictograms to have an opposite direction, e.g. graphs
		    growing from right-to-left instead of from left-to-right.
		</para></listitem>
		<listitem><para>
		    Drivers may define their local set of pictogram ID and
		    assorted client language names.
		</para></listitem>
		<listitem><para>
		    Pictograms may be implemented as widgets. In this case
		    LCDd core will keep track of its value.
		</para></listitem>
		<listitem><para>
		    ...
		</para></listitem>
	</itemizedlist>
</note>

</sect1>

<sect1><title>Internal implementation</title>

<para>This section should talk about processing of client messages, mapping
of pictogram names to pictogram IDs.</para>

</sect1>

</article>
