.TH lcdproc 1 "1-aug-01" "LCDproc"
.SH NAME
lcdproc - displays system status on LCDproc server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lcdproc
[\-s \fIserver\fP] [\-p \fIport\fP] [\fImode\fP [\fImode\fP ...]]
.SH DESCRIPTION
lcdproc connects to the LCDproc server to display status information about the system.
.PP
Currently, only Linux, xBSD and Solaris are supported with not all features being available on all platforms.
.SH OPTIONS
.I lcdproc
understands these options:
.TP 8
.B \-s \fIserver\fP
Set the hostname which LCDproc is running on, assumed to be localhost unless otherwise set
.TP 8
.B \-p \fIport\fP
Set the port which LCDproc is accepting connections on, assumed to be 13666 unless otherwise set
.TP 8
.B \fImode\fP
Where mode is one of the following letters:
.RS
[C]pu [G]raph [T]ime [M]emory [X]load [D]isk [B]attery proc_[S]izes [O]ld_time big_cloc[K] [U]ptime CPU_SM[P] [A]bout
.RE
.PP

.SH EXAMPLES
lcdproc C M D X 

.TP 8
connects to the LCDproc server and specifies the following modes:
.RS
- CPU Usage
.PP
- Memory usage
.PP
- Uptime
.PP
- Date and Time
.PP
- X-Load average over time
.RE
.PP


.SH AUTHOR
LCDproc was written by William Ferrell (wwf@splatwerks.org) and Scott Scriven (scriven@cs.colostate.edu).

The newest version of LCDproc should be available from here:

		http://lcdproc.omnipotent.net/

.SH LEGAL STUFF
LCDproc is released as "WorksForMe-Ware".  In other words, it is free, kinda neat, and we don't guarantee that it will do anything in particular on any machine except the ones it was developed on.
.PP
It is technically released under the GNU GPL license (you should have received the file, "COPYING", with LCDproc) (also, look on http://www.fsf.org/ for more information), so you can distribute and use it for free -- but you must make the source code freely available to anyone who wants it.
.PP
For any sort of real legal information, read the GNU GPL (GNU General Public License).  It's worth reading.
